# 6.2

- Outlook ..................................................................................................... 24 Bibliography ..................................................................................................... V Abbreviations ................................................................................................ XIII Oral, telephone and electronic communications ..................................................... XIV List of illustrations ..................................................................................................................................................... XV IV List of tables ................................................................................................................................ XV Annex Periodic table of artificial intelligence ..................................................................... XVI Declaration of oath ............................................................................................................................. Data media ..................................................................................................................................................... For reasons of better readability, the generic masculinum is used in this work.

- In this work, the generic masculinum is used for reasons of better legibility. Female and other gender identities are explicitly referred to, as far as it is necessary for the statement.

- Female and other gender identities are explicitly meant as far as is necessary for the statement. Introduction 1 1 Introduction Artificial Intelligence1 (AI) is nowadays an all-round term that dominates many discussions at the scientific, economic, social and political levels.

- Introduction 1 1 Introduction Artificial Intelligence1 (AI) is today an ever-present term that dominates many discussions at the scientific, economic, social and political levels. Almost all Internet users come into contact with it, mostly without their knowledge.

- Almost all Internet users come into contact with it daily, mostly without their knowledge. Prominent examples of this are the evaluation of purchasing behaviour and the based purchase recommendations for online shopping or language assistants, such as Siri and Alexa.

- Prominent examples of this are the evaluation of purchasing behaviour and the based purchase recommendations for online shopping or language assistants, such as Siri and Alexa. The algorithms behind these applications are already among the AIs [1].

- The algorithms behind these applications already belong to the AIs [1]. In other areas, such as medicine, the potential AI has long been recognized.

- In other areas, such as medicine, the potential of AI has long been recognized. In a study, an AI was compared with experienced dermatologists in the detection of skin cancer.

- In one study, an AI was compared with experienced dermatologists in the detection of skin cancer. The AI received a training with

