# 5.2 Haftung

- In terms of liability, an important question arises in the case of online learning algo rithms, which are constantly evolving during their use.

- These are constantly evolving during their use. Accordingly, there is a change in the algorithm.

- Accordingly, there is a change in the algorithm. If there is damage due to an error of the algorithm, the question of liability arises.

- Should an error of the algorithm cause damage, the question of liability arises. 9 Cf. Article 1 (1) and (2) GDPR.

- Is 9 Cf. Article 1 (1) and (2) GDPR. 10 Cf. Article 6 (1) sentence 1a GDPR.

- 10 Cf. Article 6 (1) sentence 1a GDPR. 11 Cf. Article 6 (1) sentence 1c GDPR.

- 11 Cf. Article 6 (1) sentence 1c GDPR. 12 Cf. Article 6 (1) sentence 1d GDPR.

- 12 Cf. Article 6 (1) sentence 1d GDPR. 13 Cf. Article 6 (1) sentence 1e GDPR.

- 13 Cf. Article 6 (1) sentence 1e GDPR. Possible risks 17 of the manufacturers responsible, although the algorithm worked during delivery and the error was only generated by the online learning process, or is the user responsible, because he did not monitor the learning process correctly?

- Possible risks 17 of the manufacturers responsible, although the algorithm worked during delivery and the error was only generated by the online learning process, or is the user responsible, because he did not monitor the learning process correctly? According to legal opinion, the operator of AI systems must not rely solely on the manufacturer, but is obliged to take own protective measures [54].

- According to law, the operator of AI systems must not rely solely on the manufacturer, but is obliged to take own protective measures [54]. The Product Liability Act applies only to movable goods, currently software is not considered as a product within the meaning of the law.

- The Product Liability Act applies only to movable property, currently software is not considered as a product within the meaning of the Act. Producer liability, on the other hand, is only considered if the manufacturer causes damage intentionally or negligently.

- Producer liability, on the other hand, can only be considered if the manufacturer causes damage intentionally or negligently. Due to the further development of AI systems, it is questionable whether the manufacturer can be accused of negligence if he does not anticipate entry and thus cannot prevent it [53].

- Due to the further development of AI systems, it is questionable whether the manufacturer can be accused of negligence if he does not anticipate entry and thus cannot prevent it [53]. A first fatal accident with an AI-controlled vehicle from Uber occurred in March 2018 in Phoenix (Arizona) in the USA.

- A first fatal accident involving an AI-controlled vehicle from Uber occurred in March 2018 in Phoenix (Arizona) in the USA. Here, a cyclist was not correctly identified by an autonomous vehicle when crossing the road, leading to a fatal collision.

- Here a cyclist was not correctly identified by an autonomous vehicle when crossing the road, leading to a fatal collision.

- The investigating authorities assume that the algorithm has favoured the fatal accident [55]. According to a report by the U.S. traffic safety authority NTSB14, the inattention of the test driver of the autonomous vehicle is considered to be a probable cause of the accident [56].

- According to a report by the U.S. traffic safety authority NTSB14, the inattention of the test driver of the autonomous vehicle is considered to be a probable cause of accident [56]. Should the NTSB's assessment be confirmed, this shows the enormous responsibility of the users or monitors of AI.

- Should the NTSB's assessment be confirmed, this shows the enormous responsibility of the users or controllers of AI. They ultimately carry the responsibility and as the last decision-maker they have to monitor the AI.

