# 5.6 Abhängigkeit von Systemen, Verfügbarkeit und Ausfallsicher-

- In security, functionality is of central importance in exceptional situations. While support systems can increase the effectiveness and efficiency and comfort of employees, employees must also be able to maintain their operations in the event of failure or malfunction of individual or all support systems.

- While support systems can increase the effectiveness and efficiency as well as the comfort for employees, employees must also be able to maintain their operations in the event of a failure or malfunction of individual or all support systems. To this end, it is necessary that employees remain capable of action even without support systems.

- It is necessary that employees remain capable of action even without support systems. Furthermore, employees must be aware of malfunctions or misdecisions of the system and then intervene, because they usually act as the last decision of the system.

- In addition, employees must know and intervene in malfunctions or misdecisions of the system, as they usually act as the last decision. Furthermore, relapse levels must be present in order to maintain operation in the event of a failure.

- In addition, relapse levels must be present in order to maintain operation in the event of a failure. A comparable sector in this respect is aviation, also here positive aspects can be achieved by autopilots, but in the event of a failure or malfunction, the crew must have the ability to continue to operate the aircraft and land safely.

- A similar sector in this respect is aviation, where autopilots can also achieve positive aspects, but in the event of a failure or malfunction, the crew must have the ability to continue to operate and land safely. However, a study by the United States Federal Aviation Authority shows that, on the one hand, pilots often show deficits in manual flight and, on the other hand, confidence in autopilots is too high.

- However, a study by the Federal Aviation Authority of the United States shows that on the one hand pilots often show deficits in manual flight and on the other hand the confidence in the autopilots is too great. Accordingly, there is a barrier to deciding against them [61].

- Accordingly, there is a barrier to deciding against it [61]. Here the question arises whether man as the last decision-maker also acts as this.

- This raises the question whether humans are the last decision-makers to act as such. Before the introduction, it is necessary to clarify how to deal with deviations from the decisions generated by AI systems.

- Even before the introduction, it is necessary to clarify how to deal with deviations from the decisions generated by AI systems. Otherwise, the potential risks of Ef can be further increased 20 times the blind trust in assistance systems.

- Otherwise, the Ef-Possible risks 20 of blind trust in assistance systems can be further increased. Also examples, in which vehicles turn on the highway or remain stuck on forest roads, because the navigation device makes a mistake and has been relied on in spite of calculated doubts, show the danger of an unreflected trust in the systems as well as a too great dependence on the technology [62] [63].

- Also examples where vehicles turn on the motorway or get stuck on forest roads, because the navigation device makes a mistake and has been relied on despite calculated doubts, show the danger of an unreflected trust in the systems as well as a too great dependence on the technology [62] [63]. Another automation of decision-making processes by using AI could reinforce such effects.

- Further automation of decision-making processes through the application of AI could enhance such effects. Such trends can be countered by a clear strengthening of employees as the last decision-makers.

- Such trends can be countered by a clear strengthening of the employees as the last decision-makers. The decision-making ability or the ability to carry out a particular process can no longer be due to a lack of training due to a too high degree of automation or only rudimentary.

- The decision-making ability or the ability to carry out a particular process can no longer be present or only rudimentary due to a lack of training due to an overly high degree of automation. In the area of the control centre many fire brigades encounter this development through emergency operation exercises, in which it is operated without support systems.

- In the area of control, many fire brigades encounter this development through emergency operation exercises, which operate without support systems. Thus, handling procedures and procedures are trained in case of a failure and function also in case of a spontaneous failure.

- As a result, handling procedures and procedures are trained in case of a failure and also work in case of a spontaneous failure. It is also important that assistance systems are suitable for the special requirements of the fire brigade and that the personnel are trained accordingly.

- Furthermore, it is important that assistance systems are suitable for the special requirements of the fire brigade and that the personnel are trained accordingly. For example, there are first cases where driver assistance systems in emergency vehicles, on which the employees were not trained, intervened with operational driving devices and thus caused a danger situation [64].

