# 2008.

- [Online]. Available: https://www.

- Available: https://www.stern.

- star. de/digital/technik/navi- mishaps--in-100-meter-driving-they--------in-the-flow-3087618.

- de/digital/technik/navi- mishaps--in-100-meter-driving-they--------in-the-flow-3087618. html.

- html. [Access on 01 December 2019].

- [Access on 01 December 2019]. XI [63] P. Robinette, W. Li, R.

- XI [63] P. Robinette, W. Li, R. Allen, A. M. Howard and A.

- Allen, A. M. Howard and A. R. Wagner, Overtrust of Robots in Emergency Evacuation Scenarios, Atlanta: Georgia Institute of Technology.

- R. Wagner, Overtrust of Robots in Emergency Evacuation Scenarios, Atlanta: Georgia Institute of Technology. [64] C. Hengstebeck, Minutes Session AK Technik, Mühlheim: AGGF and VDF NRW, 2019.

- [64] C. Hengstebeck, transcript Sitzung AK Technik, Mühlheim: AGGF and VDF NRW, 2019. [65] T. Luiz, H. Marung, G. Pollach and A. Hackstein, "Implementation of the structured emergency call in German control stations and effects of their introduction," Der Anaesthesist, pp.

- [65] T. Luiz, H. Marung, G. Pollach and A. Hackstein, "Implementation of the structured emergency call in German control stations and impact of their introduction," Der Anaesthesist, pp. 282-293, May 2019.

- 282-293, May 2019. [66] BearingPoint GmbH, Now and in the future Smart health in Germany does not start (yet), Frankfurt am Main: BearingPoint GmbH, 2017.

- [66] BearingPoint GmbH, Now and in the future Smart health in Germany does not start (yet) through, Frankfurt am Main: BearingPoint GmbH, 2017. [67] Statistics of the Federal Employment Agency, Focus Labour Market – IT Specialists, Nuremberg: Federal Employment Agency, 2019.

- [67] Statistics of the Federal Employment Agency, Focus Labour Market – IT Specialists, Nuremberg: Federal Employment Agency, 2019. [68] Federal Ministry of Education and Research, "Notice Directive on funding for the topic "Artificial Intelligence in Civil Security Research" as part of the program "Research for Civil Security 2018 to 2023" of the Federal Government, Federal Gazette of 15.10.2019,

