# 2018.

- [Online]. Available: https://www.

- Available: https://www. bitkom.

- bitkom. org/Bitkom/Publications/Digitalization-figure-with-the-period table-of-the-client-intelligence.

- org/Bitkom/Publications/Digitalization-shape-with-the-period table-of-the-Custom-intelligence. [Access on 14 October 2019].

- [Access on 14 October 2019]. XIII List of abbreviations AI or A.

- XIII List of abbreviations AI or A. I. Artificial Intelligence BHKG Act on Fire Protection, Assistance and Katastrophenschutz BITKOM Bundesverband Informationswirtschaft, Telekommunikation und neue Medien BMBF Federal Ministry of Education and Research GDPR General Data Protection Regulation EENA European Emergency Number Association EMS Emergency Medical Service KI Artificial Intelligence MIT Massachusetts Institute of Technology ML Machine Learning NRW North Rhine-Westphalia NTSB National Transportation Safety Board RWTH Rheinisch-Westfälische Technische Hochschule XIV Oral, telephone and electronic communications The persons mentioned here were asked about the topic by telephone, e-mail or in a personal conversation.

- I. Artificial Intelligence BHKG German Federal Ministry of Education and Research DSGVO General Data Protection Regulation EENA European Emergency Number Association EMS Emergency Medical Service KI Artificial Intelligence MIT Massachusetts Institute of Technology ML Machine Learning NRW North Rhine-Westphalia NTSB National Transportation Safety Board RWTH Rheinisch-Westfälische Technische Hochschule XIV Oral, telephone and electronic communications The persons mentioned here were interviewed by telephone, e-mail or in a personal discussion on the subject. Raimund Books Werkfeuerwehr Henkel / Werkfeuerwehrverband Deutschland Dr. Ulrich Cimolino Berufsfeuerwehr Düsseldorf / Deutscher Feuerwehr - Arbeitskreis Waldbrand Jens Cordes Berufsfeuerwehr Bremerhaven / Fachkommission Leitstellen und Digitierung der deutschen Feuerwehrung Peter Damm Berufsfeuerwehr Dortmund / Institut für Feuerwehrbereich Dortmund Sven Dunkelfeuerwehr Frankfurt / Verband zur Förderung des Deutschen Brandschutz e.

- Raimund Bücher Werkfeuerwehr Henkel / Werkfeuerwehrverband Deutschland Dr. Ulrich Cimolino Berufsfeuerwehr Düsseldorf / Deutscher Feuerwehrverband - Arbeitskreis Waldbrand Jens Cordes Berufsfeuerwehr Bremerhaven / Fachkommission Leitstellen und Digitalisierung der deutschen Feuerwehr Peter Damm Berufsfeuerwehr Dortmund / Institut für Feuerwehr- und Rettungstechnologie der Feuerwehr Dortmund Sven Dunkel Berufsfeuerwehr Frankfurt / Vereinigung zur Förderung des Deutschen Feuerwehres e. V. - Unit 7 Dr. Olaf Grebner mobilion.

- V. - Unit 7 Dr. Olaf Grebner mobility. eu Jonas Klemmt Berufsfeuerwehr Braunschweig (Research Project Sirene) Dr. Adrian Ridder Berufsfeuerwehr Düsseldorf Tim Ruß Institute for Automation and Communication e.

- [...................................................................................................3 Figure 3 Comparison of traditional programs with ML (Individual representation, individual representation, individual representation, individual representation, individual representation, individual representation, individual representation, individual representation.

- V. Mag- deburg (Research Project Sirene) Dr. Hans-Christian Schmitz (Individual) [Individual] [Individual] [Individual] [Individual] [Individual] [Individual] [Individual] [Individual] [Individual] [Individual] [Individual] [Individual] [Individual [Individual] [Individual] [Individual] [Individual] [Individual] [Individual] [Individual] [Individual] [Individual] [Individual] [Individual] [Individual [Individual] [Individual] [Individual] [Individual] [Individual] [Individual [Individual] [Individual] [Individual] [Individual] [Individual [Individual] [Individual] [Individual] [Indiual] [Individual] [Individual] [Individual] [Indiual] [Indiual] [Indiual] [Individual] [Individual] [Individual] [Indiual] [Indiual] [Indiual] [Indiual] [Indiual] [Indiual] [Indiual] [Indiual] [Indiual] [Indiual] [Indiual] [Indiual] [Indiual] [Individual] [Indiual] [Indiual] [Indiual] [Indiual] [Indiual] [Indiual] [Indiual] [Indiual] [Indiual] [Indiual] [Indiual [Indiual] [Indiual] [Indiual] [Indiual] [Indiual] [Indiual] [Indiual] [Indiual [Indiual] [Indiual] [Indiual] [Indiual] [Indiual] [Indiual] [Indiual]...

- Furthermore, no areas of application or specific applications can be derived from the definitions. Furthermore, the periodic table creates a decoupling from the technical realization of the system.

- The periodic table also creates a decoupling from the technical realization of the system. In this way, the decision-maker will be given an overview of the possibilities and fields of application of AI systems without requiring a deeper technical understanding.

- Thus, the decision-maker will be given an overview of the possibilities and fields of application of AI systems without requiring a deeper technical understanding. For the technical work the translation of the periodic table into the German language took place.

- For the technical work, the periodic table was translated into the German language. Figure 8 shows the different subsystems, the colours refer to the sub-areas introduced in Figure 2.

- Figure 8 shows the different subsystems, the colours refer to the sub-areas introduced in Figure 2. A detailed description of the individual elements is given in Table 2 [72].

- A detailed description of the individual elements is given in Table 2 [72]. Figure 8 Periodic table of artificial intelligence (Own representation, based on: [72]) As a rule, a complete AI system consists of the combination of one AI element each from each of the three groups.

- Figure 8 Periodic table of artificial intelligence (own representation, based on: [72]) As a rule, a complete AI system consists of the combination of one AI element each from each of the three groups. In sum, this creates a functional system.

- An example of this is an emergency braking system: capturing (e.g. recording the traffic situation around the vehicle), following (e.g. calculating the probability of a collision) and reacting (e.g. initiating the braking or evasive manoeuvre).

- An example of this is an emergency braking system: capturing (e.g., recording the traffic situation around the vehicle), following (e.g., calculating the probability of a crash) and reacting (e.g., initiating braking or evasive maneuvers).Se speech recognition Si speech identification Ae audio recognition Ai audio identification Vf predictive consequence Pn planning facial recognition Gi facial identification Ef explainable consequence Pl problem solution Bl relationships learning Be image recognition Bi image identification Kf artificial consequence Et decisions meeting Sa language General Kl Categories Learning Mg mobility Large communication Ea recognition General Ia identification General As data analysis Te text extraction Sv language understanding Wv knowledge improvement Mk mobility Klein Ma manipulation Kn controlling XVII table 2 period system of artificial intelligence (own representation in analogy with [72]) GROUP ELEMENT ABBRENCURZUNG KURZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZLEZ

- Se Voice recognition Si Voice identification Ae Audio recognition Ai Audio identification Vf Predictive consequence Pn Planning Face recognition Gi Face identification Ef Explaining consequence Pl Problem solution Bl Relationships Learning Be Image recognition Bi Image identification Kf Artificial consequence Et decision-making Meeting Sat Language General Kl Categories Learning Mg Mobility Large Co-communication Ea Recognition General Ia Identification General Da Data analysis Te Text extraction Sv Language Understanding Wv Knowledge enhancement Mk Mobility Small Ma Manipulation Kn Control XVII Table 2 Periodic system of artificial intelligence (Own representation in accordance with [72]) GROUP ELEMENT ABBREVIATION COURSE DESCRIPTION Capture [Se] Language recognition The recognition of spoken language and/or emotional states in an audio signal in general. Capture [Ae] Audio recognition Recognizing certain types of noise (alarms, devices stress, automotor) in an audio signal.

- Capture [Ae] Audio recognition Recognizing certain types of noise (alarms, device stress, automotor) in an audio sig- nal. Capture [Ge] Face recognition Recognizing faces and emotional states in images or video signals.

- Capture [Ge] Face Recognition Recognizing faces and emotional states in images or video signals. Capture [Be] Image Recognition Recognizing certain object types in images or video signals.

- Capture [Be] Image recognition Detection of certain object types in images or video signals. Capture [Ea] Detection General Analyzing sensor data for the detection of object types and/or situations solely from the Sig- nal.

- Capture [Ea] Detection General Analyzing sensor data for the detection of object types and/or situations solely from the Sig- nal. Capture [Si] Speech identification Recognizing an individual voice in an audio signal.

- Capture [Si] Voice identification Recognizing an individual voice in an audio signal. Capture [Ai] Audio identification Recognizing audio signatures (a particular motor or doorbell) from audio vocals.

- Capture [Ai] Audio identification Recognizing audio signatures (a particular motor or doorbell) from audio sig- nals. Capture [Gi] Face identification Recognizing concrete persons in images or video signals.

- Capture [Gi] Face identification Recognizing concrete persons in images or video signals. Capture [Bi] Image identification Recognizing a concrete object in an image or video.

- Capture [Bi] Image identification Recognizing a concrete object in an image or video. Capture [Ia] Identification General Analyzing sensor data to detect objects and/or situations alone from the signal.

- Capture [Ia] Identification General Analyzing sensor data to detect objects and/or situations from the signal alone. Follow [Vf] Predictive Consequence The prediction of events or states in the future based on an understanding of a current state of the world and the world's mode of operation.

- Follow [Vf] Predictive Conclusion The prediction of events or states in the future on the basis of an understanding of a current state of the world and the way in which the world functions. Follow [Ef] Explaining Conclusion The explanation of events or states in the real world, based on the understanding of former states.

- Follow [Ef] Explaining Conclusion Explaining events or states in the real world, based on understanding previous states. Follow [Kf] Artificial Conclusion Using evidence to support conclusions about the real state of the world, a prediction or an explanation.

- Follow [Kf] Artificial Consequence Using evidence to support conclusions about the real state of the world, a prediction or an explanation. Capture [Da] Data Analysis Analyzing data to detect certain facts and/or events that represent these data.

- Capture [Da] Data Analysis Analyzing data to identify certain facts and/or events that represent these data. Follow [Pn] Planning Creating an action plan based on a set of goals, an understanding of the real state of the world and knowledge of actions and their consequences.

- Follow [Pn] Planning Creating an action plan based on a set of goals, an understanding of the real state of the world and knowledge of actions and their consequences. Follow [Pl] Problem Solution Creating a solution to a problem that can be associated with or without the use of actions (see Planning [Pn]).

- Follow [Pl] Problem Solution Creating a solution to a problem that can be associated with or without the use of actions (see Planning [Pn]). Follow [Et] Decision Making Selecting a particular plan or solution based on existing facts, old native solutions and a number of goals.

- Follow [Et] Decisions Making Choosing a specific plan or solution based on existing facts, old native solutions and a number of goals. Capture [Te] Text Extraction Analyzing texts to extract information about entities, time, places and facts that are finally contained in the text.

- Capture [Te] Text Extraction Analyzing texts to extract information about entities, time, places, and facts that are included in the text. XVIII Followers [Sa] Language General Creating natural language texts and/or explanations based on a certain understanding of the world.

- XVIII Followers [Sa] Language General Creating natural language texts and/or explanations based on a certain understanding of the world. Followers [Sv] Language Understanding Creating a semantic representation of the meaning of a text that shows the context and a certain understanding of the functioning of the world.

- Consequences [Sv] Language Understanding The creation of a semantic representation of the meaning of a text that shows the context and a certain understanding of the functioning of the world. React [Bl] Relationships Learning The recognition of relationships between mercantiles that can be used to predict the presence of a set of hidden features when others are visible (e.g. correlation between rejected calls and client migration).

- React [Bl] Relationships Learning Recognizing relationships between merci- ments that can be used to predict the pre-existence of a set of hidden features when others are visible (e.g. correlation between rejected calls and client migration).React [Kl] Categories Learning Recognizing new categories of semantic values on the basis of characteristic collections.

- React [Kl] Categories Learning Recognizing new categories of semantic values on the basis of characteristic collections. React [Wv] Knowledge Improvement Revising knowledge or rules that already exist in response to the fact that they are used to support actions or conclusions.

- React [Wv] Knowledge Improvement Reworking knowledge or rules that already exist in response to the fact that they are used to support actions or conclusions. React [Mg] Mobility Large Control of autonomous vehicles that interact first and foremost with other vehicles.

- React [Mg] Mobility Large Controlling autonomous vehicles that interact first and foremost with other vehicles. React [Mk] Mobility Small Controlling robots moving through interiors, working and interacting with people.

- Respond [Mk] Mobility Small Controlling robots moving through interiors, working and interacting with people. Respond [Ma] Manipulate Manipulating the same objects that humans work with regularly.

- Reacting [Ma] Manipulating Manipulating the same objects that humans work with regularly. Reacting [Co] Communicating mechanisms that support the execution of various researches of communication between humans and machines.

- React [Co] Communicating mechanisms that support the execution of various processes of communication between man and machine. React [Kn] Control The intelligent control of other machines when no manipulation or action is required in the physical world (e.g. automated trade).

- React [Kn] Control The intelligent control of other machines, if no manipulation or action is required in the physical world (e.g. automated trade).Eidesstattliche Erklärung I, Marius Brüser, assure you that I have directed the present work independently, without the help of others and without the use of sources other than those I have indicated.

- I hereby assure Marius Brüser that the present work will be carried out independently, without the help of others and without the use of sources other than those indicated by me. All items taken directly or indirectly from external sources are marked as such.

- All items taken directly or indirectly from external sources are marked as such; the work has not yet been submitted to an audit authority in the same or similar form.

- The work has not yet been submitted to an audit authority in the same or similar form.

