# 6.6

- Safety Maintaining the safety and health of the forces employed is always a top priority. Preventing the spread of the flames should be the first 6 fundamentals of forest and vegetation fire control 67 measures at the place of fire, unless human rescue is carried out.

- Preventing the spread of the flames should be the first 6 fundamentals of forest and vegetation fire control 67 measures at the place of fire, unless human rescue is carried out. Limiting and extinguishing the fire can be carried out by offensive, but also defensive tactical procedures (see Fig. 6.11).

- The limiting and extinguishing of the fire can be carried out by offensive, but also defensive tactical procedures (cf. Fig. 6.11). The protection of buildings or material values should be carried out primarily before limiting the spread to vegetation.

- The protection of buildings or material values should be carried out prior to the limitation of the spread to the vegetation. Maintaining the operational capacity of vehicles and materials (damaging by heat) is the prerequisite for the safety of the forces and the extinguishing success.

- Maintaining the operational capacity of vehicles and materials (damage caused by heat) is the prerequisite for the safety of the forces and the extinguishing success. For the control of vegetation fire there are general safety rules, which can be illustrated with a short rule of note.

- For the fight against vegetation fire there are general safety rules, which can be illustrated by means of a short note rule. F = radio or communication R = retreat/point of view A = view U = monitoring radio or communication Communication within and between the management levels must always be provided.

- F = radio or communication R = reversing/point A = view U = monitoring radio or communication Communication within and between the management levels must always be provided. For the possibility of a radio failure, agreements must be made in advance via redundant communication channels.

- For the possibility of a radio failure, agreements must be made in advance via redundant communication channels. Alternatively, aids such as vehicle loudspeakers or megaphones can be used.

- Alternatively, aids such as vehicle loudspeakers or megaphones can be used. It is also possible to transmit emergency signals by means of fire-fighting or whistles, but oral communication with the help of detectors can also be a meaningful measure.

- It is also possible to carry out emergency signals by means of fire brigade or whistles, but oral communication with the help of detectors can also be a meaningful measure. Vehicle radios (MRI) can be used in gateway operation for areas without sufficient network coverage.

- For areas without sufficient network coverage, vehicle radios (MRI) can be used in gateway operation. To increase the range in DMO operation, vehicle radios (MRI) and also manual radios (HRT) can be used as repeaters.

- Vehicle radios (MRI) and handheld radios (HRT) can be used as repeaters to increase range in DMO operation. Both types of use can only be carried out on the instructions of the operator and after consultation with the control centre.

- Both types of use can only be carried out on the instructions of the operational manager and after consultation with the control centre. Reversing / anchoring point In general, the escape to a safe area must always be possible during fire fighting!

- In general, the escape to a safe area must always be possible during firefighting! The so-called safe areas before the fire are considered as safe areas.

- Safe areas before the fire are the so-called black areas or low fire load areas.

- Black areas or low-fire load areas. For this reason fire-fighting vehicles should be placed in flight direction at the operating site.

- For this reason, extinguishing vehicles should be placed in the direction of escape at the place of operation. If there are no possible turns, they should drive backwards to the place of deployment.

- If there are no options, they should drive backwards to the deployment site.

