# 7.1

- Personal protective equipment In Hesse, the protective clothing for fire brigades is regulated in the Hessian Fire Brigade Clothing and Service Level Ordinance (HFDV) of 1 January 2023 [9]. The lightweight protective suit described there according to DIN EN ISO 11612:2015 with the performance levels A1, B1 and C1 or HuPF Part 2 and Part 3, which provides the necessary protection for both technical assistance and outdoor fire operations, is also suitable and approved for the activities in the field of vegetation fire control.

- The lightweight protective suit described there according to DIN EN ISO 11612:2015 with the performance levels A1, B1 and C1 or HuPF Part 2 and Part 3, which provides the necessary protection for both technical assistance and outdoor fire operations, is also suitable and approved for the activities in the field of vegetation fire control. It also complies with the requirements of ISO 15384:2018 (forest fire protection clothing) in all relevant points.

- It also complies with the requirements of ISO 15384:2018 (forest fire protection clothing) in all relevant points. In conjunction with fire protection footwear and corresponding protective gloves, the use force is fundamentally protected against the expected dangers.

- In combination with fire brigade protective footwear and corresponding protective gloves, the operating force is fundamentally protected from the expected dangers. When selecting the fire brigade protective helmet, the "old" design (type A) is preferable to the more modern full shell helmet (type B) due to the heat load and the limited freedom of movement of the head.

- In the selection of the fire protection helmet, the "old" design (type A) is preferable to the more modern full shell helmet (type B) due to the heat load and the limited freedom of movement of the head. Alternatively, fire protection helmets according to DIN EN 16471 "Fire Weir Helmets – Helmets for forest and surface fire control" can be used.

- As an alternative, fire protection helmets according to DIN EN 16471 "Fire Weir Helmets – Helmets for Forest and Surface Fire Fighting" can be used. Due to the dangers caused by ash and spark flight, the following rules for wearing protective clothing are to be observed: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

