# 7.2.4

- General vehicles of the federal, state and municipalities 7.2.4.1 LF 10 KatS Hessen The all-wheel-driven extinguishing group vehicle is the basis of the 426 KatS trains in the state of Hesse. In addition to an FPN 10-2000, at least one PFPN 10- 1000 is loaded.

- In addition to an FPN 10-2000, at least one PFPN 10-1000 is loaded. In addition to the extensive equipment for fire fighting, tasks for technical assistance can also be performed to a smaller extent.

- In addition to the extensive equipment for fire fighting, tasks for technical assistance can also be performed to a smaller extent. 7.2.4.2 STLF 20 (TRH:2020) The squadron extinguishing vehicle 20 according to Technical Directive Hessen TRH:2020 is a 14 t heavy all-wheel extinguishing vehicle with a crew of 1/5/6.

- 7.2.4.2 STLF 20 (TRH:2020) The squadron extinguishing vehicle 20 according to Technical Directive Hessen TRH:2020 is a 14 ton all-wheel extinguishing vehicle with a crew of 1/5/6. The vehicle has a extinguishing water tank with a minimum capacity of 2 500 litres.

- The vehicle has a extinguishing water tank with at least 2 500 litres. The centrifugal pump built in the rear is to be classified in class 10/2000.

- The centrifugal pump built in the rear is to be classified in class 10/2000. The vehicle is used for firefighting and technical assistance in small scale.

- The vehicle is used for firefighting and technical assistance on a small scale. Due to the increased amount of extinguishing water, it is especially suitable for vegetation fire control, since staff are also carried in sufficient quantity.

- Due to the increased amount of extinguishing water, it is especially suitable for the fight against vegetation fire, as also staff is carried in sufficient quantity. 7.2.4.3 LF 20 KatS Bund The all-wheel-driven extinguishing group vehicle serves in its concept for fire fighting and for simple technical assistance.

- 7.2.4.3 LF 20 KatS Bund The all-wheel drive extinguishing group vehicle is designed for fire control and simple technical assistance. The vehicle is equipped with an FPN 10-2000 and a PFPN 10-1500 and has 600 meters of B hose material.

- In addition to an FPN 10-2000, the vehicle is also equipped with a PFPN 10-1500 and has 600 meters of B hose material. The vehicle can be used together with the SW 2000 for water transport.

- The vehicle can be used together with the SW 2000 for water transport. An open folding container with 5 000 litres capacity complements the equipment.

- An open folding container with 5 000 litres capacity complements the equipment. On the homepage of the BBK you can view existing guide books of the vehicles.

- 7.2.4 TLF-V according to DIN 14530-29:2022-10 In November 2022, after preparatory work by the FNFW working committee NA 031-04-06 AA, the first edition of DIN/TS 14530-29 "Delete Vehicles – Part 29: Additional Requirements for Tank Extinguishing Vehicles for Vehicle Fire Control TLF 2000-V, TLF 3000-V, TLF 4000-V" was published.

- 7.2.4.4 TLF-V acc. to DIN 14530-29:2022-10 In November 2022, after preparatory work by the FNFW working committee NA 031-04-06 AA "General requirements for firefighter vehicles – firefighting vehicles – SpA to CEN/TC 192/WG 3, the first edition of DIN/TS 14530-29 "Lösch- fahrzeuge – Part 29: Additional requirements for tank extinguishing vehicles for firefighting TLF 2000-V, TLF 3000-V, TLF 4000-V" was published. 7 Protective clothing, vehicles and equipment for forest and vegetation fire control 79 The increased number of forest and vegetation fires in recent years presents the German fire brigades with major challenges, which also have to be met technically.

- 7 Protective clothing, vehicles and equipment for forest and vegetation fire control 79 The increased number of forest and vegetation fires in recent years poses major challenges for the German fire brigades, which must also be addressed technically.The development of the technical specification DIN/TS 14530-29 as a supplementary document to the existing tank extinguishing vehicle regulations (TLF) was necessary in order to adapt the technical content of the existing TLF standards in such a way that tank extinguishing vehicles for this purpose meet the requirements for vegetation fire control.

- The development of the technical specification DIN/TS 14530-29 as a supplementary document to the existing tank extinguishing vehicle regulations (TLF) had become necessary in order to adapt the technical content of the existing TLF standards in such a way that tank extinguishing vehicles for this purpose meet the requirements for the vegetation fire control. In this technical specification, therefore, compared to the standards DIN 14530- 18, DIN 14530-21 and DIN 14530-22, only the supplementary and/or limiting type specific requirements for tank extinguishing vehicles for the vegetative fire control are specified.

- In this technical specification, only the supplementary and/or limiting type-specific requirements for tank extinguishers for vegetative fire control are specified in relation to the standards DIN 14530- 18, DIN 14530-21 and DIN 14530-22. Therefore, this DIN/TS 14530-29 is applicable for tank extinguishers, which are particularly suitable for vegetation fire control.

- This DIN/TS 14530-29 is therefore applicable to tank extinguishing vehicles, which are particularly suited and suitable for the control of vegetation fires. 7.2.4.5 Device car logistics KatS (Unimog with loading crane and forest fire module) The state of Hessen currently procures 26 special vehicles with the designation "GW-L KatS", which will complement the Kats trains in the future.

- 7.2.4.5 Appliance truck logistics KatS (Unimog with loading crane and forest fire module) The state of Hessen currently procures 26 special vehicles with the designation "GW-L KatS", which will complement the Kats trains in the future. The vehicle is equipped with a single-ripened all-wheel drive and a tire pressure re- energizing system and has a wading capability as well as an underbody protected against flames and heat.

- The vehicle is equipped with a single-ripened all-wheel drive and a tyre pressure re- ging system and has a wading capacity as well as a subsoil protected against flames and heat. The GW-L KatS is designed to be operated with a capacity of 1/2 and has a loading crane behind the cabin for loading activities.

- The GW-L KatS should be able to be operated with a capacity of 1/2 and has a loading crane behind the cabin for loading activities. As a structure, three different modular carriers are provided, which can be mounted on a twistlock bracket.

- As a structure, three different module carriers are provided, which can be mounted on a twistlock bracket. The modules can be lifted onto the vehicle with the loading crane.

- The modules can be lifted onto the vehicle with the loading crane. In the delivery state, the vehicle will be equipped with a platform, in addition, a forest fire module and an evacuation module as well as a transport trailer for a module belong to the vehicle circumference.

- In the delivery state, the vehicle will be equipped with a platform, in addition, a forest fire module and an evacuation module as well as a transport trailer for a module to the vehicle circumference. In addition, a detachable machine alignment with a pulling force of 50 kN and 45 meters of pitch will be provided.

- In addition, a detachable machine with a pull force of 50 kN and 45 meters of pitch is provided. The cabin is equipped with air conditioning and a roof hatch with a diameter of 750 mm.

- The cabin is equipped with air conditioning and a roof hatch with a diameter of 750 mm. 80

