# 7.2.5

- Equipment and vehicles for extinguishing water supply, especially suitable for vegetation fires 7.2.5.1 Forest fire tank 15,000 litres The requirements for a forest fire tank (Fig. 7.2) depend significantly on the local conditions. The topography of the site and the background are decisive here.

- The topography of the site and the background are decisive here. Forest fire tanks should be available on forest soils and on uneven surfaces.

- Forest fire tanks should be available on forest floors and on uneven surfaces. They should be robust, easy to handle and easy to transport.

- They should be robust, easy to handle and easy to transport. The type of filling and removal should be possible from a extinguishing vehicle without further aids.

- The type of filling and removal should be possible without further aids from an extinguishing vehicle. The necessary fittings and hoses should be added to a forest fire tank as a load set.

- The size of the forest fire tank should be 15 000 litres in order to produce a corresponding buffer and also to empty larger tank extinguishers completely and without delay.

- The size of the forest fire tank should be 15 000 litres in order to produce a corresponding buffer and to empty even larger tank extinguishers completely and without delay. 7 Protective clothing, vehicles and equipment for forest and vegetation fire control 81 Fig. 7.2: Folding tank for extinguishing water storage, 15 000 litres [FF Eppstein-Vockenhausen] 7.2.5.2 AB-LWV (hytranssystem) The roll-off tank serves as a pump for extinguishing water supply (Fig. 7.3) for large fires or for technical assistance applications.

- 7 Protective clothing, vehicles and equipment for forest and vegetation fire control 81 Fig. 7.2: Folding container for extinguishing water storage, 15 000 litres [FF Eppstein-Vockenhausen] 7.2.5.2 AB-LWV (hytranssystem) The roll-off container is used for extinguishing water supply (Fig. 7.3) in large fires or also for use as a pump for technical assistance.

- The device can be used to transport up to 4 000 l/min a total of 1 800 meters in fire operation. In order to transport the container, a WLF is necessary.

- In order to transport the container, a WLF is necessary. The hose section must be passable with the vehicle.

- The hose section must be passable with the vehicle. The hoses can only be passed at the hose bridges, since they have a diameter of 150 mm!

- The hoses can only be run over at the hose bridges, since they have a diameter of 150 mm! In order to be able to use the pump unit, direct access to open water with appropriate capacity is necessary, which can also be reached with the transport vehicle.

- In order to be able to use the pumping unit, direct access to open waters with appropriate capacity is necessary, which can also be reached with the transport vehicle. AB-LWV Hessen are currently stationed at the fire brigades Frankfurt, Kassel, Lorsch, Rüdesheim and Mühlheim/Main.

- The AB-LWV Hessen are currently stationed at the fire brigades in Frankfurt, Kassel, Lorsch, Rüdesheim and Mühlheim/Main. In addition, some commuting Wehren and Werkfeuerwehren have similar equipment.

- In addition, some commuting and firearms have similar equipment. 82

