# 7.2.6

- Helicopter-supported vegetation fire control devices The AB forest fire (Fig. 7.4) of the State of Hesse supports the measures of fire control from the air. In the rolling tank, equipment for extinguishing water 7 protective clothing, vehicles and equipment for forest and vegetation fire control 83 removal from open waters, water transport and stockpiling are carried as well as for application with a suitable aircraft (helicopter).

- In the roll-off container, equipment for extinguishing water 7 protective clothing, vehicles and equipment for forest and vegetation fire control 83 withdrawals from open waters, the water supply and the storage as well as for application with a suitable aircraft (helicopter) are carried. To this end, a loading set TS, a roll-container with 500 meters B hose material, two external load containers for extinguishing water discharge (so-called Bambi buckets) and a folding container with a capacity of 35 000 litres, which is suitable for filling the Bambi buckets, are kept.

- For this purpose, a loading set TS, a roll container with 500 m B hose material, two external load containers for extinguishing water discharge (so-called Bambi buckets) and a folding container with a capacity of 35 000 litres, which is suitable for filling the Bambi buckets, are maintained. The equipment of the rolling tank forest fire is supplemented by a lighting set including power generator and hand tools.

- The equipment of the Waldbrand rolling tank is supplemented by a lighting set including power generators and hand tools. In total, the state of Hesse currently has 4 of these contai- ners, which are stationed at the BF Darmstadt, the FF Lauterbach, the FF Wolfhagen and the Hessian Civil Protection Centre in Wetzlar.

- In total, the state of Hesse currently has 4 of these contai- ners stationed at the BF Darmstadt, the FF Lauterbach, the FF Wolfhagen and the Hessian Civil Protection Centre in Wetzlar. Fig. 7.4: AB forest fire "Hessen"

