# 7.3.2

- Equipment for offensive vegetal fire control 7.3.2.1 Load set J1 and J2 according to DIN 14800-18 Supplement 10 In October 2022, after preliminary work by the FNFW working committee NA 031- 04-06 AA "General requirements for fire fighting vehicles – fire fighting vehicles – SpA to CEN/TC 192/WG 3, the revision of the first edition of DIN 14800-18 Supplement 10 "Fire fighting equipment for fire fighting vehicles – Part 18: additional load sets for fire fighting vehicles; Supplement 10: Load sets J, vegetarian fire" was published.

- The AK "Forestbrand" of the DFV contributed to the development. The increasing number of forest and vegetation fires in recent years poses major challenges for the German fire brigades, which must also be met with improved equipment from the fire brigades.

- The increased number of forest and vegetation fires in recent years poses major challenges for the German fire brigades, which must also be met with improved equipment from the fire brigades. The accompanying page contains the compilation of the additional load set J "Vegetation fires", which can be carried as fire-fighting equipment on fire-fighting vehicles.

- The accompanying sheet contains the compilation of the additional load set J 'Vegetation fires', which can be carried as fire-fighting equipment on fire-fighting vehicles. The additional load sets are divided into the additional load set J1 'Vegetation fire for fire-fighting vehicles' and the additional load set J2 'Vegetation fire for flexible loading of other vehicles (e.g. GW-L) or for follow-up via a logistics system (e.g. rolling stock, grid boxes)'.

- The additional load sets are divided into the additional load set J1 "Vegetation fire for fire extinguishing vehicles" and the additional load set J2 "Vegetation fire for flexible loading of other vehicles (e.g. GW-L) or for follow-up via a logistics system (e.g. trolleys, lattice boxes)" . If the load according to Table 1 is not to be included in extinguishing vehicles, but is to be transported by means of other vehicles (e.g. equipment trolley logistics GW-L1 or GW-L2 according to DIN 14555-21 or DIN 14555-22), the necessity arises to supplement other load components in order to enable meaningful work.

- If the loading according to Table 1 is not to be included in extinguishing vehicles, but is to be transported by means of other vehicles (e.g. equipment vans logistics GW-L1 or GW-L2 according to DIN 14555-21 or DIN 14555-22), the necessity to supplement other loading components in order to enable meaningful work is apparent. Proposals for this are compiled in Table 2.

- Proposals for this are presented in Table 2. Depending on the type of transport vehicle and the topography (bad roads, here additional backpack carrying aids may be required) the loading on trolleys or in lattice boxes is necessary, taking into account the associated or necessary load securing.

- Depending on the type of transport vehicle and the topography (badly accessible paths, here additional backpack carrying aids may be required) the loading on trolleys or in lattice boxes is necessary, taking into account the associated or necessary load securing. If an air loading of the equipment is planned, a preliminary planning is necessary.

- If an air loading of the equipment is planned, a preliminary planning regarding its safe loading by the user in consultation with the air transport operator is necessary.

- their safe loading by the user in consultation with the air transport operator is necessary. For air transport as an external load, suitable and tested load gauge (e.g. ropes, nets) must be used.

- For air transport as an external load, appropriate and tested load gauges (e.g. ropes, nets) shall be used. 90

