# 8.1

- Hessen Forst Hessen Forst: The employees of the Landesbetriebe participate in the fight against forest fire in the state forest and on supervised areas as "specialist consultant forst" in the operational management. Here the responsible district foresters and forest managers support with map material and local knowledge.

- Here, the responsible district foresters and forest managers support with map material and local knowledge. Furthermore, they usually have contacts with forest companies, which can provide forest special technology (harvester, forwarder and back tugs) at the instruction of the operational management.

- Furthermore, they usually have contacts with forest companies that can provide forest special technology (harvester, forwarder and back tugs) at the instruction of the operating management. Hes- sen Forst itself has UVV-schlep- per only in some forest offices, which can be used in the field of extinguishing work.

- Hessen Forst itself only has so-called UVV-Schlep per in some forest offices, which can be used as part of the extinguishing work. Furthermore, there are usually relations with local farmers, who have already been able to support the extinguishing work with larger water barrels in the past.

- Furthermore, relations with local farmers, who in the past had already been able to support the extinguishing work with larger water barrels. a.

- a. If forest fires occur in forests not cared for by Hesse Forst, the employees support the operational management in accordance with the Waldbranderlassung until the competent municipal or private forestry specialist or the forest owner.

- If forest fires occur in forests not managed by Hessen Forst, the employees support the operational management in accordance with the forest fire decree until the competent municipal or private forestry specialist or the forest owner. b.

- b. As mentioned in point (a) above, the state enterprise Hessen Forst has only very limited special forestry technology, which can be used in soldering plants.

- As mentioned in point (a) above, the Hessen Forst plant has only very limited special forestry technology, which can be used at Löschar- ingen. However, the employees of Hessen Forst can assist in organizing and instructing appropriate technology according to the instructions of the operating lines.

- However, the employees of Hessen Forst can assist in organizing and instructing appropriate technology according to the instructions of the operating lines. In the past, the following machine types have successfully supported Löscharbeiten in Hesse: Harvester (full harvester) Harvester can be used in forest fires to quickly install snow on the edge of the forest fire.

- In the past, the following types of machines have been successfully supported in the case of fire extinguishers in Hesse: Harvester (full harvester) Harvester can be used in forest fires to quickly install snow on the edge of the forest fire. As no persons are used in the felling area, a high level of safety is provided for the parties involved.

- As no persons are used in the felling area, a high level of safety for the participants is given. The driver's cabin is reinforced and air-conditioned.

- The cabin of the driver is reinforced and air-conditioned. The harvesters most frequently used in German forestry have a working weight of approx. 15 to 23 tons.

- The harvesters most frequently used in German forestry have an operating weight of approx. 15 to 23 tons. 8 Participation of other bodies 95 The machines have a high off-road capability and can, depending on the applicable fall aggregate, bring trees up to a chest height of 75 cm to the ground safely.

- 8 Participation of other bodies 95 The machines have a high off-road capability and can, depending on the applicable felling unit, safely bring trees to the ground up to a chest height of 75 cm. Nevertheless, forestry machines should not be used in the immediate environment of the fire, since the components such as tyres and the hydraulic system are not designed for high ambient temperatures.

- Nevertheless, forestry machines should not be used in the immediate environment of the fire, as the components such as tyres and the hydraulic system are not designed for high ambient temperatures. Fig. 8.1: Harvester with ribbons in hardwood harvesting [Hessen Forst, K. Kahle] An average harvester should achieve an output of approx. 40-50 trees per hour in the case of a forest fire in the installation of protective snows.

- Fig. 8.1: Harvester with ribbons in hardwood harvesting [Hessen Forst, K. Kahle] An average harvester should achieve an output of about 40–50 trees per hour in the case of a forest fire in the installation of protective snows.This number refers to trees with a mass of about 1 solid metre.

- This number refers to trees with a wood mass of about 1 solid meter. Forwarder forwarders can quickly and efficiently remove processed trees from the harvester and make them accessible to freshly laid snows.

- Forwarder Forwarder can quickly and efficiently remove trees processed by the harvester and make them accessible to freshly laid cut irons. Furthermore, cranes can be used on the machines to create wound strips and to remove residual wood.

- Furthermore, the cranes on the machines can be used to create wound strips and remove residual wood. 96

