# 2022.

- [4] Ministry of the Interior of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia, forest fire prevention and forest fire control in North Rhine-Westphalia, Düsseldorf: State of North Rhine-Westphalia, 2021. [5] Ministry of the Interior and Municipal Thuringia, "Handbuch Vegetation Fire Control", Freistaat Thüringen, Erfurt, 2020.

- [5] Ministry of the Interior and Municipal Thüringen, "Handbuch Vegetation Fire Fighting," Freistaat Thüringen, Erfurt, 2020. [6] HMdIS V1 / V45, Recommendation for Action Forest and Land Fires in Munitionally Contaminated Areas (Appendix 5 to the Special Protection Plan Waldbrand), Wiesbaden: Land Hessen, 2019.

- [6] HMdIS V1 / V45, Recommendation for action Forest and area fires in areas contaminated with ammunition (Appendix 5 to the Special Protection Plan Waldbrand), Wiesbaden: Land Hessen, 2019. [7] HMdIS V41, leaflet "Request helicopter and special means of intervention Waldbrand" (Appendix 1 to the Special Protection Plan Waldbrand), Wiesbaden: Land Hessen, 2022.

- [7] HMdIS V41, leaflet "Requirement Helicopter and special means of use Waldbrand" (Appendix 1 to the special protection plan Waldbrand), Wiesbaden: Land Hessen, 2022. [8] HMdIS V41, leaflet "Foldable extinguishing water containers for forest fire control" (Appendix 3 to the special protection plan Waldbrand), Wiesbaden: Land Hessen, 2022.

- [8] HMdIS V41, leaflet "Foldable extinguishing water containers for forest fire control" (Appendix 3 to the special protection plan Waldbrand), Wiesbaden: Land Hessen, 2022. [9] HMdIS, "Hessische Feuerwehrkleidungs- und Dienstgradverordnung - HFDV,

- [9] HMdIS, "Hessische Feuerwehrkleidungs- und Dienstgradverordnung - HFDV, such as Wiesbaden, 2021. [10] Cimolino, Südermesen and Neumann, Vegetation Fire Control, Landsberg am Lech: comed-Storck GmbH, 2019.

- [10] Cimolino, Südermesen und Neumann, Vegetation fire control, Landsberg am Lech: comed-Storck GmbH, 2019. 100 [11] Cimolino, Maushake, Südermesen und Zawadke, Vegetation fire control - basics, tactics, equipment, Landsberg am Lech: comed-Storck GmbH, 2015.

- 100 [11] Cimolino, Maushake, Südermesen and Zawadke, Vegetation Fire Fighting - Basics, Tactics, Equipment, Landsberg am Lech: comed-Storck GmbH, 2015. [12] HMdIS and HMUKLV, Forest Fire Fighting in Hesse - Runderlass, Wiesbaden : Land Hessen, 2022.

- [12] HMdIS and HMUKLV, forest fire control in Hesse - Runderlass, Wiesbaden : Land Hessen, 2022. [13] German Fire Brigade Association, Security and Tactics in Vegetation Fire Use, Federal Office of the German Fire Brigade Association, 2020.

- [13] German Fire Federation, Security and Tactics in Vegetation Fire, German Fire Federation, 2020. [14] German Fire Federation, National concept for particularly large or difficult vegetation fires, Berlin, 2022.

- [14] German Fire Federation, National concept for particularly large or difficult vegetation fires, Berlin, 2022. [15] Federal Office for Agriculture and Food, Forest Fire Statistics 2021, Bonn, 2021.

- [15] Federal Office for Agriculture and Food, Forest Fire Statistics 2021, Bonn, 2021. [16] N. Barth, "The Critical Vegetation Fire," Fire Protection, No. 9, 2022.

- [16] N. Barth, "The Critical Vegetation Fire," Fire Protection, No. 9, 2022. [17] S. Kaulfuss, "Technical Measures for Forest Fire Prevention," 01 01

