# 3.2

- Special ownership and forest use The forest in Hesse belongs to different public and private forest communities and is forested by different actors.This can have immediate consequences for forest fire control.

- This can have immediate consequences for the fight against forest fires. The state enterprise Hessen Forst takes care of approximately 70 % of the forest area in Hesse.

- The state enterprise Hessen Forst takes care of approximately 70 % of the forest area in Hesse. Figure 1 shows here the care percentage in the respective forest properties.

- Figure 1 shows the percentage of care in the respective forest holdings. If there is a forest fire in a forest property not supervised by Hessen Forst, the forest owner or an authorised representative is to be drawn as contact person of the fire brigades.

- If there is a forest fire in a forest property not supervised by Hessen Forst, the forest owner or an authorised representative of the fire brigade is to be drawn there. If no expert representation of the forest owner is available, the locally responsible employee of the state enterprise Hessen Forst can be used as a supporting support authority.

- If no expert representation of the owner of the forest is available, the locally responsible employee of the state enterprise Hessen Forst can be used as a support authority. 3 Basics 7 Fig. 3.1: Forest in Hesse [1] In addition to the managed forest stocks, with a normally sufficiently developed and maintained forest path and back alley network, there are forest areas which have been largely taken out of forest use and whose maintenance infrastructure is not always subject to regular care.

- 3 Basics 7 Fig. 3.1: Forest in Hesse [1] In addition to the managed forest populations, with a normally sufficiently developed and well maintained forest path and back alley network, there are forest areas which have been largely taken out of forest use and whose maintenance infrastructure is not always subject to regular care.

