# 4.1

- Terms and definitions Flame height The flame height (Fig. 4.2) corresponds to the direct length of the flames, viewed from the bottom, perpendicular to the height. Flame length The flame length (Fig. 4.2) indicates the distance of the flame tip from the ground, viewed in the direct course.

- Flame length The flame length (Fig. 4.2) refers to the distance of the flame tip from the ground, viewed in the direct course.The flame length can be clearly different from the flame height due to the thermal properties of the fire, combined with the existing wind.

- The flame-length can differ significantly from the height of the flame due to the thermal properties of the fire, combined with the existing wind. Flame-/fire-seam The flame-/fire-seam (Fig. 4.2) is the width or depth at the base of the area in flames.

- Flame-/fire-seam The flame-/fire-seam (Fig. 4.2) is the width or depth at the base of the area in flames. Black area The black area (Fig. 4.3) is an area within a fire zone in which the combustible materials were consumed by the fire.

- Black area The black area (Fig. 4.3) is an area within a fire zone in which the combustible materials were consumed by the fire. 4 Types, forms and dangers of vegetation fires 11 Fire front The fire front (Fig. 4.3) forms the area of the main direction of the fire.

- 4 Types, forms and dangers of vegetation fires 11 Fire front The fire front (Fig. 4.3) forms the area of the main direction of the fire. This is driven by wind, in conjunction with combustible material.

- This is driven by wind, in combination with combustible material. The flame length and propagation speed depend on the wind strength and the available combustible material.

- The flame length and propagation speed depend on the wind strength and the combustible material available. Fig. 4.2: Flame height, flame length and fire hem [2] Fire flank A fire flank (Fig. 4.3) spreads, driven by wind, to the left or right along the main direction of the fire.

- Fig. 4.2: Flame height, flame length and fire hem [2] Fire flank A fire flank (Fig. 4.3) spreads, driven by wind, to the left or right along the main direction of the fire.The flame length and expansion speed are also dependent on the wind strength and the available combustible material.

- The flame length and expansion speed are also dependent on the wind strength and the combustible material available. Anchor point An anchor point is the tactically meaningful position from which a fire fighting can be initiated with respect to self-protection.

- Anchor point An anchor point is the tactically useful position from which a fire fighting can be initiated with respect to the self-protection. In this case, preferred areas are to be chosen, which offer the operating force safe escape possibilities (roads, already burnt areas etc.), but nevertheless allow an effective fire control as possible.

- In this case, preferred areas are to be chosen, which offer the operating force safe escape possibilities (roads, already burnt areas etc.), but nevertheless allow the most effective fire control possible. Direct attack/offensive procedure In a direct attack/offensive procedure, the fire is immediately cooled at the flame area or separated from the fire property.

- Direct attack/offensive procedure In a direct attack/offensive procedure, the fire is immediately cooled at the flame area or separated from the fire property. 12

