# 4.2

- Influence of topography An important factor in vegetation fires is the influence of the terrain on fire behaviour. Large-scale vegetation fires occur in Germany mainly in deeper plains, such as the Lüneburg Heath or in Branden- burg.

- Large-scale vegetation fires occur in Germany mainly in deeper plains, such as the Lüneburg Heath or in Branden- burg. But also in the middle and high-mountain area fires with enormous spreading speed occurred in the past.

- But also in the middle and high-mountain area fires with enormous rate of propagation occurred in the past. Different influences influence each other or add up, whereby the slope position and inclination play a special role.

- Different influences influence each other or add up, whereby the slope position and inclination play a special role. In principle, local upwinds prevail during the day on mountain slopes (Fig. 4.4), triggered by the faster warming air on the slopes compared to the still cool air in the valley, which has not yet been affected by solar radiation.

- In general, local upswings occur on mountain slopes during the day (Fig. 4.4), triggered by the faster warming air on the slopes compared to the still cool air in the valley, which has not yet been affected by solar radiation. As a result, the heated air continues to rise and leads to a reduction in the air density on the slope.

- As a result, the heated air continues to rise and leads to a reduction in the air density on the slope. Fig. 4.4: Thermik an Hanglagen [2] 14

