# 4.3

- Influence of the weather Weather describes the state of the atmosphere at a certain time and place. It is defined by the parameters temperature, low impact, humidity, air pressure, wind and clouding.

- It is defined by the parameters temperature, low pressure, humidity, air pressure, wind and clouding. These parameters, with reference to a longer period of time, are called weather and are called climate within a period of 30 years.

- These parameters, for a longer period of time, are referred to as weather and are called climate within a period of 30 years. The daily and seasonal conditions create the conditions for the emergence and spread of vegetation fires.

- The daily and seasonal conditions create the conditions for the emergence and spread of vegetation fires. However, due to experience values, some of the main climatic factors that trigger vegetation fires crystallize out.

- However, due to experience, some of the main climatic factors that trigger vegetation fires crystallize out. Long-lasting dry phases lead to a decrease in soil moisture.

- Long-lasting dry phases lead to a decrease in soil moisture. Substantial water shortages occur in the plants.

- Substantial water shortages occur in the plants. From a water content of less than 15% in the soil, the risk of fire increases considerably.

- From a water content of less than 15 % in the soil, the risk of fire increases considerably. Also, the risk of vegetation fires increases at a humidity of less than 50 %.

- There is also an increased risk of vegetation fires at a humidity of less than 50%. The usual dry phases are from mid-March to around the beginning of May.

- The usual dry phases exist from mid-March until around the beginning of May. In addition, in these months the soil vegetation is characterized by dry, partly dead plant residues (especially grasses) and has not yet been replaced by fresh materials.

- In addition, in these months the soil vegetation is characterized by dry, partly dead plant residues (especially grasses) and has not yet been replaced by fresh material. The second period is the summer phase, which is now characterized by extreme drought in some parts of the country combined with long heat phases.

- The second period is the summer period, which is now characterized by extreme dryness combined with long heat phases in some parts of the country. However, the most important weather factor affecting the intensity of the fire is the relative humidity.

- The most important weather factor affecting the intensity of the fire, however, is the relative humidity. This follows a typical course of the day: it sinks from approx.

