# 4.4

- Types of vegetation fires Starting from the vegetation prevailing in the individual regions of Hesse and the economic use of land, vegetation fires can be divided into different species or subspecies:

- Straw still lying on the surface can vary the rate of propagation. Extinguishing measurements with fire patches and similar equipment are very effective in stubble field fires.

- Fire measures with fire patches and similar devices are very effective in stubble field fires. Fire of unharvested fields, meadows and heath fires Non-harvested fields, meadows and heaths offer a high fire load especially shortly before the harvest and burn with comparatively large energy-free setting, smoke generation and flame development.

- Fire of non-harvested fields, meadows and heath fires Non-harvested fields, meadows and heaths offer a high fire load in particular shortly before the harvest and burn with comparatively large energy-freeness, smoke development and flame development. Fire fighting with fire patches or other hand-guided devices is usually only possible on the flanks, but in the area of the front already due to the flame height cannot be carried out.

- Firefighting with fire patches or other hand-guided devices is usually only possible on the flanks, but cannot be carried out in the area of the front due to the height of the flame. The influence of wind on a fire in a grain field is not to be estimated.

- The influence of wind on a fire in a grain field is not to be underestimated. The flame height at the front can be up to 3 meters, the flame length 6 to 7 meters [10].

- The flame height at the front can be up to 3 meters, the flame length 6 to 7 meters [10]. Forest fires as a collective term for all fires in the forest can be distinguished in: Ground fire A ground fire is a fire that spreads on the ground of forest, meadow and corridor in foliage or needle litter, grass, dry rice dough or similar.

- Forest fires as a collective term for all fires in the forest can be distinguished in: Ground fire A ground fire is a fire that spreads on the ground of forest, meadow and corridor in foliage or needle litter, grass, dry rice dough or the like. These are fuels that have smaller structures and a large surface area.

- These are fuels with smaller structures and a large surface area.The surface of finer fuels, such as grass and hot-wort, is much larger than the volume ratio to the coarser fuels such as branches and trunks.

- The surface of finer fuels, such as grass and heather, is much larger than the volume ratio to the coarser fuels, such as branches and trunks. Fuels with a larger surface dry faster and require less heat until they are enraptured.

- Fuels with a larger surface will dry faster and require less heat until they are released. The spread of ground fire varies depending on the soil vegetation and fuel type.

- The spread of ground fire is different depending on the soil vegetation and fuel type. It is quite possible that a fire propagation is carried out on all sides in the case of wind stills.

- It may well happen that in the case of wind silence, a fire spread is carried out on all sides. 18

