# 4.5

- Hazards associated with forest and vegetation fires (AAAACEEEE scheme) A – spread heat radiation – heat radiation is used to heat, dry and, if necessary, to ignite non-affected areas.Flights – the existing thermal systems can carry up to several kilometres of burning parts and thus set fire to previously unaffected forest areas, in which case one speaks of a spot fire.

- Flight fires – due to the existing thermal systems, burning parts can be carried along up to several kilometres and thus set fire to forest areas that have not been affected so far, in this case one speaks of a spot fire. Spark flight – by spark flight, for example, forest fires can be triggered if these arise from a negligently lit customs fire.

- Spark flight – spark flight, for example, can trigger forest fires if they arise from a negligently lit custom fire. However, even in forest fires, this occurrence occurs very often when coniferous trees or brushwood burn.

- But even in forest fires, this occurrence occurs very often when conifers or brushwood burn. This phenomenon can result in another fire (a spot fire).

- This phenomenon can result in another fire (a spot fire). Spot fire – this phenomenon usually occurs when a large thermal system is developed by the main fire and as a result burning and glowing parts fly through the air.

- Spot fire – this phenomenon usually occurs when a large thermal system is developed by the main fire and as a result burning and glowing parts fly through the air. Spot fire usually occurs in very dry areas where the low ignition energy is sufficient to inflame these areas.

- Spot fires usually occur in very dry areas where the low ignition energy is sufficient to inflame these areas. Spot fires can also develop into large fires in the course of the course and disturb, obstruct or even make impossible the planned tactical measures of the fire brigade.

- Spot fires can also develop into large fires and disturb, obstruct or even make impossible the planned tactical measures of the fire brigade. 20

