# 5.1

- Structure of operational planning With the acquired knowledge of one's own responsibility, with the help of the knowledge of the legal basis, the concrete operational planning can take place. Based on the keyword determination F Wald 1 and F Wald 2 and the respective pre-emptive means of use, the units to be alar- ed are defined in the local alarm and exit order.

- On the basis of the key words F Forest 1 and F Forest 2 and the respective pre-emptive means of use, the units to be alarised are defined in the local alarm and exit order. Since the local resources will no longer be sufficient in the event of an extended vegetation fire very quickly, the definition of the scale of the fire is useful, from which circular planning should be available and should take effect.

- Since the local resources will no longer be sufficient in the event of an extended vegetation fire very quickly, the definition of the scale of the fire is useful, since the circular planning should be available and should take effect. An example of this is shown below : Tab.

- An example of this is shown below : Tab. 5.1: Overview of the classification of vegetation fires according to their size level Classification of fires Area definition Application keyword Affected municipalities Management unit Use 01 Small Forest fires up to 1 ha 100 x 100 mtr.

- 5.1: Overview of the classification of vegetation fires according to their size Level of fires Area definition Application keyword Affected municipalities Leadership unit Use 01 Small Forest fires up to 1 ha 100 x 100 mtr. =

