# 5.2

- Forest fire use maps The forest fire use maps (WBEK) show relevant information for forest fire control on a topographical map in a scale of 1:25 000. No information is available in the forest fire use maps for the areas not maintained by Hessen Forst.

- No information is available for the areas not covered by Hesse Forst. WBEK contains in particular information on water sampling points, the accessibility of the forest network and the rescue points.

- The WBEK includes in particular information on water sampling points, the accessibility of the forest infrastructure network and the rescue points. Furthermore, where available, ammunition loads are presented according to the data stock of the combat equipment clearance service.

- Furthermore, where available, ammo loads are shown according to the data stock of the fighting equipment clearance service. Since the production of forest fire assignment maps for private forest owners is not mandatory so far, information is not available for the entire forest area of Hesse.

- Since the production of forest fire maps for private forest owners is not mandatory, information is not available for the entire forest area of Hesse. The identification and verification of water sampling points in the forest is to be carried out with the participation of the local fire brigade.

- The identification and verification of water sampling points in the forest is to be carried out with the participation of the local fire brigade. The forest fire intervention maps of the state enterprise Hessen Forst can be downloaded as a high-resolution PDF on the website of the state enterprise Hessen Forst.

- The forest fire intervention maps of the state enterprise Hessen Forst can be downloaded as a high-resolution PDF on the website of the state enterprise Hessen Forst. For integration into a GIS, the data of Hessen Forst will be transferred to the state fire brigade school in Kassel.

- For integration into a GIS, the data of Hessen Forst will be transferred to the Landesfeuerwehrschule in Kassel. They can be accessed from fire brigades and other BOS.

- They can be accessed from fire brigades and other BOS. Fig. 5.3: Example of a forest fire operation map 28

