# 5.3

- Digital forest fire maps/NavLog NavLog GmbH is a joint project of the forestry and wood industry. By digitizing forest maps material by NavLog, rationalization potentials are to be realized within the logistics chains of the timber industry.

- By digitizing forest map material by NavLog, rationalization potentials are to be realized within the logistics chains in the wood industry. This is done in particular by achieving and securing a meaningful navigation of wood transport vehicles between the wood industry and the forest.

- This is done in particular by achieving and securing a meaningful navigation of wood transport vehicles between the wood industry and the forest. However, the route data are not only used for this purpose, but also for the rescue of accident victims or to enable the fight against forest fires.

- However, the route data are not only used for this purpose, but also for the rescue of accident victims or to enable the fight against forest fires. An advantage is that NavLog is currently used by forest owners of all types of property and thus also data on private forest areas are supplied.

- One advantage is that NavLog is currently used by forest owners of all types of property and thus also provides data on private forest areas. In order to maintain the current good data situation as an added value compared to "island maps" for central, uniform data for authorities and organizations with security tasks (BOS) and the fire brigades, a contract with NavLog GmbH is concluded by the State of Hessen.

- In order to maintain the current good data situation as an added value compared to "island maps" for central, uniform data for authorities and organizations with security tasks (BOS) and the fire brigades, a contract with NavLog GmbH is concluded by the State of Hessen. This will enable all BOS to access forest fire-relevant data of all forest ownership types in the future.

- This will enable all BOS in the future to access forest fire-relevant data of all forest types. 6 Fundamentals of forest and vegetation fire control 29 6 Basics of forest and vegetation fire control The following chapter deals with the basics of forest and vegetation fire control.

- 6 Fundamentals of forest and vegetation fire control 29 6 Basics of forest and vegetation fire control The following chapter deals with the basics of forest and vegetation fire control. Various publications in various forms3 are already available for this purpose.

- Various publications are already available for this purpose in various forms3. The following statements are partly taken over with the permission of the authors and authors in the original word sounds4 from the corresponding publications [2], [4] and [5].

