# 6.2

- Structure of management structures The management organisation describes the tasks of the managers and specifies the type and number of management levels. It ensures that the work of the operational management runs smoothly and continuously in any kind and size of danger or damage situations.

- It ensures that the operations management's work is smooth and continuous in all types and sizes of hazards or damage operations.The operations management and thus the management organisation are in their structure and scope dependent on the operations, the damage event and the number of units to be led.

- The operational management and thus the management organization are in their structure and scope dependent on the traffic situation, the damage event and the number of leading units. The integration of specialist consultants into the management structure (e.g. of Hessen Forst) is also necessary.

- The involvement of specialist consultants in the management structure (e.g. of Hessen Forst) is also necessary. In the context of forest fire control, especially in the event of growing events, it is necessary to create and describe a clear and defined management structure in advance (integration into alarm and deployment planning).

- In the context of forest fire control, especially in the event of growing events, it is necessary to create and describe a clear and defined management structure in advance (integration into alarm and deployment planning).A corresponding phase of deployment is usually useful and recommended due to the size of the event, the spatial extent, the difficult movements, the extensive or difficult situational exploration and/or the inconsistency.

- A corresponding phase formation is usually useful and recommended due to the size of the event, the spatial extent, the difficult movements, the extensive or difficult situation detection and/or the confusingness. Here, a section formation is recommended (Fig. 6.3), which should contain for example at least the following sections: 的 Phase of operation (EA) Firefighting (EA) Phase of operation (EA) Firefighting water supply (EA) Area of deployment The formation of further sections is useful depending on the situation, but the total number of 5 sections should not be exceeded.

- A sectional formation is recommended (Fig. 6.3), which should contain, for example, at least the following sections:

- These further sections can be e.g.:

- For this purpose, the deployment area, for example, can be sub-divided into sub-divisions. Depending on the requirement and situation, further sub-sections can also be formed and the structure and management levels can be specified and adjusted.

- Depending on the requirements and situational dependence, further subsections can also be formed and thus the structure and management levels can be defined and adjusted. The deployment section must also be equipped with appropriate management equipment to perform these tasks (e.g. ELW 2).

- In order to perform these tasks, the deployment phase must also be equipped with appropriate management tools (e.g. ELW 2). However, the 2–5 rule for managers must be observed when structuring the management structure!

- When structuring the management structure, however, it is essential to observe the 2–5 rule for executives! The 2–5 rule describes a rule of thumb for the conductability of tactical units.

- The 2–5 rule describes a rule of thumb for the conductability of tactical units. Core statement of the rule is that a leader can lead between two and five tactical units of the under-ordered leadership level.

- The core statement of the rule is that a leader can lead between two and five tactical units of the under-ordered leadership level. More than five tactical units must be distributed to several leaders/sub-leaders, who will then be led by the over-ordered leader.

- More than five tactical units have to be distributed to several guides/sub-leaders, which are then directed by the over-arranged manager. Pre-planned structures of telecommunications connections (radio network plan/communication structure) are of particular importance, especially in the case of growing operations.

- Preplanned structures of telecommunications connections (radio network plan/communication structure) are of particular importance, especially in the case of growing operations. The telecommunications organization uses the defined management organization as a basis for planning.

- The telecommunications organization uses the defined management organization as a basis for planning. Only when information flows and the recipients reach, the management process of the managers can be applied correctly and continuously and the success of the operation can be ensured.

- Only when information flows and the recipients reach, the management process of the managers can be properly and continuously applied and the operational success ensured. It is essential, in the context of the alarm and deployment planning and the associated creation of preplanned 36

