# 6.3.1

- Pendulum transport The aim of the extinguishing water supply must always be to establish a stable and sufficiently independent water supply at the damage site. A long-term supply in the pendulum transport is neither objective nor sensible.

- A long-term supply in the commuting traffic is neither objective nor useful. However, the installation of a commuting traffic with tank extinguishing vehicles is usually the first option in practice, because the fastest available option to ensure the need for extinguishing water at the site of use (Fig. 6.6 and Fig. 6.7).

- However, the installation of a shuttle traffic with tank extinguishers in practice is usually the first, because the fastest available, option to ensure the extinguishing water requirement at the place of use (Fig. 6.6 and Fig. 6.7). Fig. 6.6: Simple shuttle traffic with tank extinguishers and extinguishing water containers [2] An actual, continuous supply of extinguishing water through the shuttle traffic with extinguishing vehicles is planningally difficult to ensure.

- Fig. 6.6: Simple shuttle traffic with tank extinguishers and extinguishing water tanks [2] An actual, continuous supply of extinguishing water through the shuttle traffic with extinguishing vehicles is planningally difficult to ensure. Differently large extinguishing water tanks, uneven timing of the vehicles, the integration of enormous numbers of vehicles and the risks of vehicle failure in the forest make 6 basics of forest and vegetation fire control 41 a difficult to control challenge.

- Differently large extinguishing water tanks, uneven cycle of the vehicles, the integration of enormous numbers of vehicles and the risks of a vehicle failure in the forest make 6 basics of forest and vegetation fire control 41 this a hardly controllable challenge. When setting up a commuting traffic, the following points have to be taken into account, among other things: When using commuting traffic an EA or UEA is necessary due to the planning effort.

- When setting up a commuting traffic, the following points are to be considered among other things: 的 When using commuting traffic, an EA or UEA are necessary due to the planning effort. 的 Large tank extinguishing vehicles are used for commuting.

- Use large tank-extinguishing vehicles for commuting. For non-local forces, pilots are required.

- For non-local forces, pilots are required. 的 Water transfer points have to be defined.

- Figure 6.7: Double shuttle traffic with tank extinguishers [2]

