# 6.3.2

- Water transfer points In case of an extinguishing water supply over long hose distances, it is planned to define water transfer points. These can be executed in different ways, e.g. as a vehicle with water tank or as a container (principle of the open switching series).

- These can be carried out in different ways, e.g. as a vehicle with a water tank or as a container (principle of the open switching series). Accordingly large-scale containers, from which the units/disposal vehicles in use are supplied centrally, are also useful.

- In addition, large-scale containers, of which the units/disposal vehicles in use are centrally supplied, make sense. This shortens the paths for vehicles or can sometimes divide the supply at the appropriate places into sub-divisions, further subdivided areas.

- This shortens the distances for vehicles or can sometimes divide the supply at the appropriate points into sub-divided, further-separated areas. However, this requires the performance of the fire-fighting centrifugal pumps used and the capacity of the corresponding containers.

- However, this requires the performance of the fire-extinguishing centrifugal pumps used and the capacity of the corresponding containers. Likewise, large buffer capacities can easily bridge the change during pendulum, the different water output, pump failures and possible hose bursts.

- Similarly, large buffer capacities can easily bridge the change during pendulum, the different water discharge, pump failures and possible hose bursts. 42

