# 6.4

- Tactics of use In the fight against vegetation fires, these are generally measures to protect material values and to prevent the spread. In the fire-fighting of vegetation fires, there is usually a completely different danger than in the classical fire of buildings, which also affects the tactics of use.

- With regard to the firefighting of vegetation fires, there is usually a completely different risk than with the classic building fire, which also affects the operational tactics, with the safety and health of the emergency personnel in any case having the highest priority.

- In any case, the safety and health of the emergency personnel are of the highest priority. This principle influences the procedure- 8 The use of net resources must be coordinated with the relevant forestry officer.

- This principle influences the procedure- 8 The use of netting material must be coordinated with the competent forest official. Here, care must be taken to the fluorine-freeness and biodegradability.

- Here, attention must be paid to fluorine-freeness and biodegradability. 6 Fundamentals of forest and vegetation fire control 45 ways in the fight against vegetation fire, which can be divided into two basic tactile variants (Fig. 6.11), which can also be used in combination.

- 6 Fundamentals of forest and vegetation fire control 45 ways in the fight against vegetation fire, which can be divided into two basic tactile variants (Fig. 6.11), which can also be used in combination.Veget fire Offensive Tactics Defensive Tactics Attack with... ... Beam tube ... Hand tool Create protective strips Create wound strips Run fire Combined tactics Use of aircraft Fig. 6.11: Tactical possibilities In addition to the rate of propagation and the existing vegetation, which measures and tactics can be used, the application of these measures and the length of the flames in combination with the existing situation is determined.

- Vegetation Fire Offensive Tactics Defensive Tactics Attack with... ... Beam Tube ... Hand Tool Protective Strips Create Wound Strips Run Fire Combined Tactics Use of Aircraft Fig. 6.11: Tactical Possibilities In addition to the rate of propagation and the existing vegetation, which measures and tactics can be used, as well as the length of flames in connection with the situation found.

- In general, it should be noted: Tab. 6.1: Flame length and tactics Flame length Preferred tactics Procedure up to approx. 1 meter (huft-high) offensive Use of hand tools or extinguishing backpacks and small extinguishers up to approx. 2 meters (mans-high) offensive Use of C or D-ray tubes, usually D-ray tubes are sufficiently defensive from 2 meters rather than offensive control (e.g. the fire front) is extremely risky and can only be carried out in exceptional cases with sufficient water supply and the use of several beam pipes (e.g. bar position) from 3 meters defensive Due to possible extreme/fast/surpassable fire propagation defensive measures initiate full fires or wipe fires rarely occur in a forest fire, but are encouraged under certain conditions.

- 6.1: Flame length and tactics Flame length Preferred tactics Procedure up to approx. 1 meter (huft-high) offensive Use of hand tools or extinguishing backpacks and small extinguishers up to approx. 2 meters (mans-high) offensive Use of C or D-ray tubes, as a rule D-ray pipes are sufficiently defensive from 2 meters rather than offensively combat (e.g. the fire front) is extremely risky and only in exceptional cases with sufficient water supply and the use of several beam pipes to perform (e.g. bar position) from 3 meters defensive Due to the possibility of extreme/fast/surpassable fire propagation defensive measures initiate full fire or top fire rarely occur in a forest fire, but are favored under certain conditions. Due to their intensity, fire expansion and extremely dynamic movements, these fires can often not be combated with the existing ground-bound forces, since the fires run during a full fire or whistle fire for a team of 46 and not calculable.

