# 6.5

- Firefighting techniques Various factors of influence, such as vegetation, terrain shape and wind conditions, are decisive for the choice of the means of use to combat vegetation fires. Fig. 6.17: Forest fire at Hanau [Hanau Fire Brigade] Especially the growth in combination with the prevailing wind conditions influences the flame lengths, which are ultimately a decisive factor in the choice of tactical procedures and the means of use.

- Fig. 6.17: Forest fire at Hanau [firearm Hanau] Especially the growth in combination with the prevailing wind conditions influences the flame lengths, which are ultimately a decisive factor for the choice of the tactical procedure and the means of use. In general, the following fist formula can be assumed (Tab.

- In general, the following formula can be assumed (Table 6.1): Tab.

- 6.1): Tab. 6.1: Instructions for use with different flame lengths Flame length Appliances Hip height up to approx.1 m Use of hand tools (small extinguishers, fire patches, shovels etc.) possible Man height up to approx.2 m Use of jet tubes (D- or C-ray tube) reasonable From approx.2 m Combat the fire front, if at all, only with several jet tubes and sufficient extinguishing water possible.

- 6.1: Instructions for use with different flame lengths Flame length Application devices Hip height up to approx. 1 m Use of hand tools (small extinguishers, fire patches, shovels etc.) possible Man height up to approx. 2 m Use of jet tubes (D or C-ray tube) useful From approx. 2 m Combating the fire front, if at all, only possible with several jet tubes and sufficient extinguishing water.

- Particular attention must be paid here to the safety of the forces involved. Over 3 m extreme and fast, often uncontrolled fire propagation possible.

- Over 3 m extreme and fast, often uncontrolled fire propagation possible. Absolutely consider a defensive action tactics.

- Defensive tactics must be considered. 54

