# 6.5.1

- Use of hand tools Standard loading of fire trucks that comply with a relevant standard includes a large number of hand tools that can be used in the fight against vegetarian fire, including tools for digging and throwing sand and soil, for cutting and crushing as well as for loosening.

- This includes tools for digging and throwing sand and soil, for cutting and crushing as well as for loosening. These devices can be supplemented with various other equipment parts that have proven themselves in use or belong to the loading kit "Waldbrand" according to DIN 14800.

- These equipments can be supplemented by various other equipment parts that have proven themselves in applications or belong to the load set "Waldbrand" according to DIN 14800. Fig. 6.18: Use of hand tools [2] In particular, the installation of wound strips (Fig. 6.18) with the help of hand tools is a tedious process that requires the efficient use of tools and personnel.

- Fig. 6.18: Use of hand tools [2] In particular, the installation of wound strips (Fig. 6.18) with the help of hand tools is a laborious process that requires the efficient use of tools and personnel. Scooping and above all spades with as sharp and sharp a leaf as possible are particularly suitable for loosening soils, especially when they are crossed with finely branched roots.

- Scooping and especially spades with as sharp and sharp a leaf as possible are particularly suitable for loosening soils, especially if they are crossed with finely branched rootwork. Further hacking or clearing tools, especially suitable for the installation of wound strips, should be used in meaningful combination in order to achieve the target of application as quickly and energy-friendly as possible.

- Further hacking or clearing tools, especially suitable for the installation of wound strips, should be used in meaningful combination in order to reach the target of application as quickly and energy-friendly as possible. Here, the order of use of hacking and subsequent clearing tools must be observed.

- The order of use of hacking and subsequent clearing tools must be considered. 6 Fundamentals of forest and vegetation fire control 55 fires up to a flame length of approx. 1 m must be combated efficiently with a combination of different hand tools and small extinguishers, especially in terrain which is difficult to reach by vehicles.

- 6 Fundamentals of forest and vegetation fire control 55 fires up to a flame length of approx. 1 m must be combated efficiently, especially in terrain, which is difficult to reach by vehicles, with a combination of different hand tools and small extinguishers. Especially in fires on hard soils, bogs, grass and heaths can be used, in addition to the sand and earth throw by shovels, fire patches.

- Fire patches can be inserted in addition to the sand and earth throw by means of shovels, especially in the case of fires on hard soils, bogs, grass and heaths. By means of fire patches, flames can be wiped out or swept out or pressed out, whereby in particular when expressing the advantage is that in this way the fire is optimally suffocated and the spark stroke is avoided as far as possible.

- By means of fire patching, flames can be wiped out, swept out or squeezed out, the advantage being that the fire is optimally suffocated in this way and the spark stroke is avoided as far as possible. The mentioned extinguishing methods can be supplemented by cooling off the fire with the help of water, carried in small extinguishers or extinguishing backpacks.

- The mentioned extinguishing methods can be supplemented by cooling the fuel with the help of water, carried in small extinguishers or extinguishing backpacks. In order to enable the targeted application of water, the additional use of hacking and clearing tools is often useful.

- In order to enable the targeted application of water, the additional use of hacking and clearing tools is often useful. In addition to shovels and spades, as well as the wood-based hoop-hacks, dung hacks, but also the Pulaski forest brandaxt from the USA or the so-called "Gorgui" can be used as appropriate.

- In addition to shovels and spades, it is possible to use the wood-based hoops, the dug hacks, the Pulaski forest fire axt, or the so-called "Gorgui" which originates from the forest industry as appropriate. For efficient fire fighting, a simultaneous use of several hand tools is always useful.

- For efficient firefighting a simultaneous use of several hand tools is always useful. Hand tools are suitable for direct control of vegetation fires as well as especially for re-extinguishing work.

- Hand tools are suitable both for direct control of vegetation fires and especially for re-extinguishing work. It is also difficult to find that gluten esters can appear hidden depending on vegetation and soil condition.

- Difficulty is often added that depending on vegetation and soil condition, gluten esters can appear hidden. The use of thermal imaging cameras makes it easier to find hidden fires and enables them to be combated in a targeted manner.

- The use of thermal imaging cameras facilitates the detection of hidden fires and enables them to be controlled in a targeted manner. Thermal imaging cameras help to obtain an overview of the area of damage if necessary or to observe the development of fires at places of greater dimension.

- Thermal imaging cameras at locations of greater dimension help to get an overview of the damage area if necessary or to observe the development of fires. Various aircraft, such as drones or helicopters, which are equipped with thermal imaging cameras are suitable for this purpose.

- Various aircraft, such as drones or helicopters, which are equipped with thermal imaging cameras are suitable for this purpose. The use of an observation post in conjunction with a rotary ladder or lifting rescue platform can also provide good services.

