# 6.5.3

- Special situations of use 6.5.3.1 Firefighting during fires in the ground Depending on the soil condition and composition, fires can occur directly in the ground or the fire can spread over the root plant (Fig. 6.26) of the vegetation prevailing there and penetrate again upwards. Fires under the earth's surface often do not form any flames at all and for this reason it is difficult to locate.

- Fires under the surface of the earth often do not form flames at all and for this reason they are difficult to locate. Fig. 6.26: Root fire [2] Such fires can often burn over several days or weeks before they are discovered.

- Fig. 6.26: Root brandy [2] Such fires can often burn for several days or weeks before they are discovered. There is a risk that they will spread uncontrollably.

- As a result, there is a risk that they will spread uncontrollably. Often such fires arise in places with sandy soils due to their low water storage capacity or in bog areas where dry peat areas can be burned.

- Often such fires occur in places with sandy soils due to their low water storage capacity or in bog areas, where dry peat surfaces can be burned. An accurate investigation with the thermal imaging camera is helpful in order to locate possible fire areas.

- An accurate investigation with the thermal imaging camera is helpful in order to locate possible fire areas. Subsequently, the ground can be flooded in stages with the help of fire-fighting nails, whereby the spread should be prevented here as well.

- The soil can then be flooded in stages with the help of extinguishing nails, whereby even here the spread should be prevented. Age-native or complementary water can be used with netting agents, which can penetrate deeper into the soil layers.

- The use of wetted water, which can penetrate deeper into the soil layers, can be used either as an alternative or as a supplement. If necessary, the use of construction equipment to dig up the fire sites should be tested.

- If necessary, the use of construction equipment which can be used to dig up the fire sites must be checked. 62

