# 2.2

- Vegetation Fire6 The term "Vegetation Fire" is not uniformly defined in Germany. In general, vegetation fires (damage fires) can be understood in nature, which can occur as corridor fires, forest fires or bog fires.

- Generally, vegetation fires can be understood as fires (damage) in nature, which can occur as hall fires, forest fires or moor fires. The classification of vegetation fires in different orders of magnitude, as well as their development potential, should be taken into account when alarming.

- The classification of vegetation fires in different orders of magnitude, as well as their development potential, should be taken into account during the alarming process. 4 DFV: Safety and tactics in vegetation fire use 2020 5 DFV: Safety and tactics in vegetation fire use 2018 6 vegetation fires, leaflet for the fire brigades of Bavaria, State Fire School Würzburg, 2022 Page 6 RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION However, it should be noted that a vegetation fire is highly dynamic and driven by the weather alongside the fire material (type and condition of vegetation).

- 4 DFV: Security and tactics in vegetation fire use 2020 5 DFV: Security and tactics in vegetation fire use 2018 6 vegetation fires, leaflet for the fire brigades of Bavaria, Staatliche Feuerwehrschule Würzburg, 2022 Page 6 TREATMENT RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION However, it should be noted that a vegetation fire is highly dynamic and driven by the weather next to the fire material (type and condition of vegetation). Thus, a "vegetation fire small" can develop into a "vegetation fire big" in certain weather conditions.

- Thus, a "vegetation fire small" within half the shortest time (also until the arrival of the fire brigade) can develop into a "vegetation fire big" especially in certain weather conditions. Therefore, the propagation conditions must be taken into account when alarming (better too many forces in the initial phase, than too little and after-alarm).

