# 2.3.2

- Forest fire as a ground fire9 The ground fire in the forest affects vegetation close to the ground and dead material. The fire usually spreads slowly (<10 m/h) to all sides in the initial stage.

- The fire usually spreads slowly (<10 m/h) to all sides in the initial stage. Wind and terrain are becoming increasingly important with increasing spread.

- Wind and terrain are becoming increasingly important with increasing spread. The smoke is on 7 vegetation fires, leaflet for the fire brigades of Bavaria, Staatliche Feuerwehrschule Würzburg, 2022 8 Cimolino, Dr., Ulrich et al.

- The smoke is on 7 vegetation fires, leaflet for the fire brigades of Bavaria, Staatliche Feuerwehrschule Würzburg, 2022 8 Cimolino, Dr., Ulrich et al. ; Vegetation fire control, ecomedstorck GmbH, 2015 9 types of forest fires: Of crown fires and parent fires (waldwissen.

- ; Vegetation fire control, ecomedstorck GmbH, 2015 9 types of forest fires: Of crown fires and parent fires (waldwissen. net) • Vegetation fire up to 200 sqm Recommendation: at least 1 extinguisher • Vegetation fire 200 to 10,000 sqm Recommendation: at least 2 extinguishers • Vegetation fire over 10,000 sqm Recommendation: at least 3 extinguishers Page 7 RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION light grey colored due to the nature of the combustible material.

- net) • Vegetation fire up to 200 sqm Recommendation: at least 1 extinguisher • Vegetation fire 200 to 10,000 sqm Recommendation: at least 2 extinguishers • Vegetation fire over 10,000 sqm Recommendation: at least 3 extinguishers Page 7 RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION light gray colored due to the nature of the combustible material. This is a sign for observers that it is (still) a ground fire.

- This is a sign for observers that it is (still) a ground fire. Figure 3 Ground fire Image: Kaulfuß, Forstliche Versuch und Forschungsanstalt Baden-Württemberg In the case of forest fires, it is particularly important to note that gluten nests from root plants or the humus layer are under the surface and can still last a very long time, similar to fires in the ground.

- Figure 3 Ground fire Image: Kaulfuß, Forstliche Versuch und Forschungsanstalt Baden-Württemberg In the case of forest fires, it should be noted that gluten nests from root plants or the footrest are under the surface and can still last a very long time as in the case of fires in the ground. They must be localized, removed and extinguished separately, otherwise there is an enormous risk of resurgence.

- They must be located separately, removed and deleted, otherwise there is an enormous risk of re-ignition. Glut esters can be located on the ground with highly sensitive thermal imaging cameras from the air or by manual exploration.

- Glutnesters can be located with highly sensitive thermal imaging cameras from the air or by manual exploration on the ground. page 8 RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION VEGETION BRANDBAUTION Perception with TV camera Figure 4 Glutnest under the surface with TV camera Image: Bundespolizei Perception with thermal imaging camera Figure 5 Glutnest under the surface with thermal imaging camera Image: Bundespolizei

