# 2.3.3

- Full fire (or crown fire)10 Full fires are almost always produced from ground fires when the fire reaches the upper area of the trees via dead wood, dry bark or low-hanging branches.

- There is still a lot of oxygen in the crown area due to low decomposition. Thus the fire is nourished and the spread to 10 forest fire types: From crown fires and tribal fires (waldwissen.

- Thus the fire is nourished and the spread to the 10 forest fire types: From crown fires and tribal fires (waldwissen. net) Page 9 RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION VEGETION BRANDED FIGHTING Full fire happens extremely quickly.

- NET) Page 9 RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION Full fire is extremely fast. Especially wind and dryness encourage the formation of full fires.

- Especially wind and dryness encourage the formation of full fires. The smoke of a full fire is dark grey to black due to densely needled or leafy and thus green fuel.

- The smoke of a full fire is dark grey to black due to densely needled or leafy and therefore green fuel. A full fire consumes a lot of oxygen, this consumption leads to a strong air flow in the near-floor area.

- A full fire consumes a lot of oxygen, this consumption leads to a strong draught in the near-bottom area. This "self-made" wind ensures that the fire spreads quickly to all sides.

- This "self-made" wind ensures that the fire spreads rapidly to all sides. Due to the severe decomposition, the actual fire front is difficult to locate.11 Figure 6 Full fire or crown fire Image: Federal forest operation Oder-Havel-Spree Figure 7 black smoke in full fire Image: Alexander Otte, member of the working group of the LFV 11 11 Cimolino, Dr., Ulrich; Vegetation fire control, comedstorck GmbH, 2015 Page 10 RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION

