# 2.3.5

- Flight fire with spot fire / fire island13 Flight fire arises in connection with fuel whirled up by wind and thermals, such as a crown or full fire or a grain fire, and represents a new fire stove in front of the fire front. This new fire stove is also called a fire island or spot fire.

- This new fire stove is also known as a fire island or a spot fire. It occurs especially frequently with stronger wind and with great heat development.

- It occurs particularly frequently with stronger wind and with great heat development. This type of propagation is particularly critical, since artificial and natural fireshoes as well as other tactical catch lines can be overflown.

- This type of propagation is particularly critical as artificial and natural fires can be overrun as well as other tactical catch lines. In the 2018 forest fire at Treuenbriet- zen (Brandenburg), a railway dam and a wide road were skipped by flying fire during the fire in the Lü- neburg Heath of the 200 m wide Mittellandkanal.

- During the 2018 forest fire at Treuenbriet- zen (Brandenburg), a railway dam and a wide road were skipped by flying fire during the fire in the Lü- neburg Heath of the 200 m wide Mittellandkanal. If the danger of flying fires exists, the resulting spot fires must be explored separately.

- If there is a danger of flying fires, the resulting spot fires must be explored separately. 12 types of forest fire: Of crown fires and tribal fires (waldwissen.

- 12 types of forest fires: Of crown fires and tribal fires (waldwissen. net) 13 Fire brigade Learningable: Flight fires (fire brigade-learnable.

- NET) 13 Firefighters Learningable: Firefighting (fire-fighting-learnable. bayern) Page 11 TREATMENT RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION Figure 9 Flightfires

