# 2.3.6

- Fires in the ground (moor and peat fire) Moor fires usually occur in connection with long-lasting droughts. It is difficult to locate the hem of a bog fire, since the fire usually takes place in the underbody of the bog and the smoke rarely rises in a vertical line from the ground.

- It is difficult to locate the hem of a moor fire, as the fire usually takes place in the underbody of the moor and the smoke rarely rises in a vertical line from the ground. If a moor fire is not extinguished, it may be that it is glimmering for months without any significant roughness indicating a fire.

- In case of non-extinguishing of a moor fire, it may be that it falters for months without a significant development of roughness indicating a fire. Also, these underground fires can survive an unrecognized winter break and only make attention to themselves during the vegetation period.

- These subterranean fires can also survive an unrecognized winter break and only raise awareness during the growing season. The running speed is very slow and carries a maximum of 1000 m/24 h. Nevertheless, moor fires require long-lasting and permanent control and observation.

- The running speed is very slow and carries a maximum of 1000 m/24 h. Nevertheless, bog fires require long-lasting and permanent control and observation. Here, the risk of burglary due to underground cavities should not be overlooked.

- The risk of burglary caused by underground cavities should not be overlooked. Figure 10 Moor fire

