# 2.5

- Pages and areas of a vegetation fire Figure 12 Form of vegetation fire Image: Staatliche Feuerwehrschule Würzburg • The green area is the area that is not yet affected by the fire event. • The fire origin (1) is the origin of the fire.

- • The origin of the fire (1) is the origin of the fire. • The black area is an area within a fire zone where the combustible materials were consumed by fire.

- • The black area is an area within a fire zone in which the combustible materials were consumed by fire. Video The 4 sides of a fire (LFS Schleswig-Holstein) Page 13 RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION VEGETABLES RECOMMENDATION • The fire front forms the area of the main direction of the fire.

- Video The 4 sides of a fire (LFS Schleswig- Holstein) Page 13 RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION • The fire front forms the area of the main direction of the fire. The fire front is driven by wind, in combination with combustible material.

- The fire front is driven by wind, in combination with combustible material. The flame length and the rate of propagation depend on the wind strength and the available combustible material.

- The flame length and the rate of propagation depend on the wind strength and the combustible material available. • The fire flank spreads to the left or right along the main direction of the fire, driven by wind.

- • The fire flank spreads to the left or right along the main direction of the fire, driven by wind. • A fire island/spot fire is a fire stove outside the actual fire event.

- • A fire island/spot fire is a fire stove outside of the actual fire event. • The anchor point is the tactically meaningful position from which a fire control can be initiated under note of self-protection.

- • The anchor point is the tactically useful position from which firefighting can be initiated under stress of self-protection. In this case, it is preferable to choose areas that allow safe escape possibilities (roads, already burnt areas, etc.) for the operator, but nevertheless allow the most effective firefighting.

- In this case, it is preferable to choose areas which allow safe escape possibilities (roads, already burnt areas, etc.) for the use force, but nevertheless allow the most effective fire control possible. Anchor points must be secured, provided that re-ignition cannot be excluded.

- Anchor points must be secured if re-ignition cannot be ruled out. Page 14 RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION 3 Training The e.g.

- Page 14 RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION 3 Training The fire service regulations currently in force 2 Training of the volunteer fire brigades 3 Units in fire and assistance use do not contain any special regulations for training in the field of vegetation fire control.

- applicable fire service regulations 2 Training of the volunteer fire brigades 3 units in firefighting and assistance use do not contain any special regulations for training in the field of vegetation fire fighting. This recommendation is therefore to serve as a basis for training in the district and municipal fire brigade associations as well as at the state fire brigade school.

- This recommendation for action is therefore to serve as a basis for the training in the Kreis- und Stadtfeuerwehrverbande as well as at the Landesfeu- erschule together with the provisions in the FwDV 2 and 3. Further further training is the responsibility of the associations.

