# 4.2

- Equipment In the case of fires, especially forest and surface fires, the extinguishing agent water is usually in the foreground. In the fight against vegetation fire, the use of small extinguishers and hand tools is often already targeted.

- In the field of vegetation fire control, the use of small extinguishers and hand tools is often already targeted. In this way, a very effective fire control can usually be carried out with low extinguishing water input.

- In this way a very effective firefighting can be carried out with low extinguishing water input. On the existing fire vehicles are already many equipment according to standard available.

- Many equipment according to the standard is already available on the existing fire brigade vehicles. The additional load sets "J1" and "J2" vegetation fire according to E DIN 14800-18 Beiblatt 10 provide a good basic equipment for this.

- The additional loading sets "J1" and "J2" vegetation fire according to E DIN 14800-18 Beiblatt 10 provide a good basic equipment for this. This can and should be supplemented according to regional specificities, for example with special hand tools or more hose material with further portable small motor pumps.

- This can and should be supplemented according to regionally existing special features, for example with special hand tools or more hose material with further portable small motor pumps. Further information and information are in • the technical recommendation safety and tactics in the vegetation fire use of the working group Waldbrand in coordination with the specialized committee of deployment, extinguishing agents and environmental protection of the German fire brigades and the • specialized recommendation equipment for the vegetation fire control of @fire – Internationaler Katastrophenschutz Deutschland e.

- Further information and information can be found in • the technical recommendation safety and tactics in the vegetation fire use of the Waldbrand working group in consultation with the Technical Committee on Use, extinguishing agents and environmental protection of the German fire brigades and the • technical recommendation to find equipment for the vegetation fire control of @fire – International Cata- strophenschutz Deutschland e. V. (DGUV FBFHB-035, 2022).

- V. (DGUV FBFHB-035, 2022). page 18 RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION The following table gives an overview of various equipment for the fight against vegetation fire, which are already partially present on vehicles with the standard load Figure 15 Table Equipment for the fight against vegetation fire on standard vehicles Image: Staatliche Feuerwehrschule Würzburg Further equipment for the fight against vegetation fire can optionally be procured individually or in combination.

- Page 18 RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION The following table gives an overview of various tools for the fight against vegetation fire, which are already partially present on vehicles with the standard load Figure 15 Table Equipment for the fight against vegetation fire on standard vehicles Image: Staatliche Feuerwehrschule Würzburg Further equipment for the fight against vegetation fire can optionally be procured individually or in combination.

- For this purpose, the standard loading of fire vehicles can be extended by additional loading sets. Page 19 RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION These additional loadings are standardized as previously mentioned in DIN 14800-18.

- Page 19 RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION These additional loads are standardized as previously mentioned in DIN 14800-18. Especially in page 10, the "additional load forest fire" is listed, which consists of numerous other equipment for the control of vegetation fires.

- Especially in page 10 the "additional load forest fire" is listed, which consists of numerous other equipment for the control of vegetation fire. Figure 16 Table Additional load forest fire Image: Staatliche Feuerwehrschule Würzburg Page 20 RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION

