# 4.3

- Vehicles In order for the fire brigades to be able to provide rapid and effective assistance in their operations in the event of accidents and assistance, they are available as indispensable tools for moving vehicles to the respective locations. According to the definition in the corresponding standards, fire brigade vehicles are: "... for the use of fire brigades specially designed motor vehicles and trailer vehicles, which are set up according to their purpose for the reception of the crew, the fire brigade technical loading as well as the extinguishing and other means of use.

- According to the definition in the corresponding standards, fire-fighting vehicles are: "... for the use of fire-fighters specially designed vehicles and towing vehicles, which are equipped according to their intended use for the reception of the crew, the fire-wehr technical loading as well as the fire-fighting and other means of use. "16 The fire-fighters present in the voluntary fire-fighters in the Land Schleswig-Holstein are not in principle explicitly designed for the control of vegetation fire. Nevertheless, in order to reach the place of use safely and quickly with these vehicles, certain technical units should be present: • lower centre of gravity, • high ground clearance, • all-wheel drive, • differential barriers.

- In order to get to the place of use safely and quickly with these vehicles, certain technical features should be present: • lower centre of gravity, • high ground clearance, • all-wheel drive, • differential barriers. In all applications, each unit leader and machine operator must be aware that in particular thermal damage to important lines (electric, compressed air, fuel, etc.) can lead to total inability to move the vehicle.

- For all operations, it must be clear to each unit leader and machinist that in particular thermal damage to important lines (electric, compressed air, fuel, etc.) can lead to total inability to move the vehicle. Appropriate careful movement of the vehicle is therefore necessary.

- Appropriate careful movement of the vehicle is therefore necessary. Furthermore, an unfavorable installed air intake (e.g. under the vehicle) can clog and thus lead to the failure of the vehicle engine.

- In addition, an unfavorable installed air intake (e.g. under the vehicle) can clog and thus lead to the failure of the vehicle engine. In addition, hot sub-components (e.g. catalyst or soot particulate filter) can ignite new fires.

- In addition, hot sub-components (e.g. catalyst or soot particulate filters) can spark new fires. With the civil protection vehicles (LF KatS) of the federal government and the state of Schleswig-Holstein, vehicles are available that are suitable for fire fighting and water promotion over long distances due to their design.

- With the civil protection vehicles (LF KatS) of the federal government and the state of Schleswig-Holstein, vehicles are available which are suitable for firefighting and water promotion over long distances due to their design.

