# 5.3

- LACES safety rule19 In addition to the risk matrix known in the fire brigades (see point 5.4), the so-called LACES safety rule is also used in the field of vegetation fire control. "LACES" rule comes from the Anglo-American region and has also established itself in Europe.

- The "LACES" rule comes from the Anglo-American region and has also established itself in Europe. It consists of the elements: L Location Observer (lookout) The observers keep track of the fire events and current weather changes.

- It consists of the elements: L Location Observer (lookout) The observers keep an overview of the fire events and current weather changes. They pass on their findings and dangers to the respective operational or sectional guidance.

- They pass on findings and dangers to the respective operating or sectional line. Observation can be carried out from an elevated ground point with a rotating conductor, drone or aircraft.

- The observation can take place from an elevated ground point with a rotating conductor, drone or aircraft. The observation must capture the entire fire, if necessary must be operated with several observers.

- The observation must capture the entire fire, if necessary it must be worked with several observers. 19 Cimolino, Dr., Ulrich; Vegetation fire control, ecomedstorck GmbH, 2015 and DFV-FE_Vegetationbrand_2020.

- 19 Cimolino, Dr., Ulrich; Vegetation fire control, ecomedstorck GmbH, 2015 and DFV-FE_Vegetationbrand_2020. pdf (Fraitwehrverband.

- pdf (fire brigade association. en) Page 26 TREATMENT RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION A Anchor-point Anchor points are the starting points of the direct extinguishing attack.

- Page 26 TREATMENT RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION A Anchor-point Anchor points are the starting points of the direct extinguishing attack. At best they should be located at non-combustible points (e.g. paths, roads, streams).

- At best, it should be located at non-combustible points (e.g. roads, roads, streams) and must be specified and monitored in the operational command.

- They shall be specified and monitored in the command of operation. Anchor points shall ensure that the forces will not run around unnoticed by the fire and thus protect them from inclusion by a fire.

- Anchor points ensure that the forces will not run around unnoticed by the fire and thus protect them from the inclusion by a fire. There must always be at least one anchor point.

- There must always be at least one anchor point. C Communication Communication is complex.

- C Communication Communication is multi-layered. It begins with the use of uniform terms and terms, leads through the securing of radio communication or other means of signaling (signal whistle, signal light source as emergency signal/retraction signal) to the interaction with the population (warnings, use information) as well as the media in the context of public relations work.

- It begins with the use of uniform designations and terms, leads through the securing of radio communication or other signal media (signal whistle, signal light as emergency signal/retraction signal) to the interaction with the population (warnings, information on use) as well as the media in the context of public relations work. E rescue and retreat path (evacuation away) (escape routes) They can also be regarded as escape and rescue routes and serve as a safe way to the security zone or the collection place for the operational forces in the danger area.

- E Rescue and Retreat Path (Evacuation Away) (Escape Routes) They can also be considered escape and rescue routes and serve as a safe way to the security zone or the collection area for the operatives in the danger area. They must be notified, documented and kept free in advance to the operational forces.

- They must be notified, documented and kept free in advance to the operational forces. In the case of a withdrawal order or signal, they must be used immediately.

- In the event of a withdrawal order or signal, they shall be used immediately. If rescue measures are necessary in the danger area, they shall be used as approaches for the rescue forces.

- If rescue measures are needed in the danger area, they can be used as approaches for the rescue forces. In the context of the local hazard assessment, possible paths should be explored and documented regularly.

- In the context of the local hazard assessment, possible paths should be explored and documented on a regular basis. Particular attention should be paid to the suitability for the available emergency vehicles or for only walking on foot.

- In particular, attention must be paid to the suitability for the available operating vehicles or for only pedestrian entry. Without these conditions, the ground-bound direct soldering unit must be rejected from safety green.

- Without these conditions, the ground-bound direct soldering set from safety green must be rejected. A uniform withdrawal signal is a sequence of three tones by means of a signal whistle or loudspeaker.

- A single withdrawal signal is a sequence of three tones by means of a signal whistle or loudspeaker. It is to be repeated several times and is considered for all forces as an order to withdraw via the withdrawal routes to the safety zones.

- It is to be repeated several times and is valid for all forces as an order to withdraw via the withdrawal routes to the security zones. Page 27 RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION S Safety zones These are places to which forces can withdraw and collect in case of danger or evacuation.

- Page 27 RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION S Safety zones (Safety zones) These are places to which forces can withdraw and collect in the event of a hazard or evacuation. They should be located outside the danger area or in such a way that a danger of the surfaces can be almost excluded and the forces can remain there.

- They should be located outside the danger area or in such a way that a danger of the areas can be almost excluded and the emergency forces can remain there. At best, the safety zone is designed in such a way that an additional (air-based) evacuation would be possible (e.g. asphalted / graveled roads or parking places, extensive meadows with short vegetation).

- At best, the safety zone is designed in such a way that an additional (airborne) evacuation would also be possible (e.g. paved/stained roads or parking places, extensive meadows with short vegetation). Figure 20 LACES rule Pictures: Dennis Fischer, member of the working group of the LFV page 28 RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION

