# 5.5.1

- Offensive approach The offensive approach refers to the direct fight against a fire or the fire hem as well as all necessary support measures. This can be done by ground extinguishing forces with extinguishing vehicles, by discarding extinguishing water from the air or in combination with mentioned tools.

- This can be done by ground extinguishing forces with fire-fighting vehicles, by discarding extinguishing water from the air or in combination with the above-mentioned tools. Netting agent (0.1-0.3% Class-A foam agent) 21 Rockholtz, Fire Protection Manual 22 Rockholtz, Fire Protection Manual Technology Tactics Fire-fighting Ground-based air-assisted team Equipment Figure 22 Interlocking Technology and Tactics Graphic: Michael Bendt according to @fire As already mentioned in section 5.1, preventing the spread of flames should be the first measure at the place of fire, unless there is any human rescue to be carried out, which must be treated as a matter of priority.

- Netting agent (0.1-0.3% Class-A foam) 21 Rockholtz, Fire Protection Manual 22 Rockholtz, Fire Protection Manual Technology Tactics Firefighting Ground-based air-based team Equipment Figure 22 Interlocking Technology and Tactics Graphic: Michael Bendt according to @fire As already mentioned in section 5.1, the prevention of the spread of flames should be the first measure at the place of fire, unless there is any human rescue to be carried out, which must be treated as a matter of principle.

- The limitation and extinguishing of the fire can be carried out by offensive, but also defensive tactical procedure. Page 33 RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION can achieve a significant increase in the penetration depth and thus the extinguishing effect.

- Page 33 RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION can achieve a significant increase in the penetration depth and thus the extinguishing effect. The tactical approach should be planned carefully in advance after extensive exploration.

- The tactical approach should be carefully planned in advance after extensive exploration. It is essential to consider the available means of use, the fire intensity with flame length as well as the spreading speed and direction as important criteria in the planning.

- The available means of use, the fire intensity with flame length as well as the spreading speed and direction should be taken into account as important criteria in the planning. This results in various tactical possibilities.

- This gives rise to various tactical possibilities. 5.5.1.1 Tension attack (attack over the flanks to the fire front) This operational tactic can be used well in vegetation fires.

- 5.5.1.1 Tension attack (attack over the flanks to the fire front) This operation tactic can be used well in vegetation fires. The flanks are rolled up from the anchor points.

- The flanks are rolled up from the anchor points. The vehicles and extinguishing teams move in the green, still unburnt area.

- The vehicles and fire crews move in the green, still unburnt area. Figure 23 Plier attack from the green area Image: Staatliche Feuerwehrschule Würzburg Page 34 RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION OF VEGETABLE TREATMENTS Figure 24 Plier attack from the green area (graphic) Image: @fire The following units are used in the figure shown above: • Scaled vehicle 1 (here TLF) The attack team is engaged to combat the flanks from an anchor point either in pump & roll operation or caterpillar operation on one of the flanks.

- Figure 23 Tension attack from the green area Image: Staatliche Feuerwehrschule Würzburg Page 34 RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION Figure 24 Tension attack from the green area (graphic) Image: @fire The following units are used in the figure shown above: • Staggered vehicle 1 (here TLF) The attack group performs re-extinguishing work to combat the flanks from an anchor point either in pump & roll operation or caterpillar operation on one of the flanks.

- The water team performs re-extinguishing work. • Scaling vehicle 2 (here TLF) The attack group acts to combat the flanks from an anchor point either in pumping & rolling or caterpillar operation on one of the flanks.

- • Squad 2 (here TLF) The attack group is engaged to combat the flanks from an anchor point either in pump & roll operation or caterpillar operation on one of the flanks. The water group is carrying out re-extinguishing work.

- The water team performs re-extinguishing work. • Vehicle 3 (here an LF) provides a safety post and additionally secures the flanks.

- • Vehicle 3 (here an LF) provides a safety post and additionally secures the flanks. If the flanks are extinguished, the fire front is attacked from the side and the troops are moving towards each other.

- If the flanks have been extinguished, the fire front is attacked from the side and the troops are moving towards each other. page 35 RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION Figure 25 Plier attack (picture from a drone) Image: Alexander Otte, member of the working group of the LFV If the green area (see section 2.5) is e.g. a grass area, it will not burn either.

- Page 35 TREATMENT RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION Figure 25 Plier attack (picture from a drone) Image: Alexander Otte, member of the working group of the LFV If the green area (see section 2.5) is e.g. a grass area, it will not burn either. If the green area is also a combustible area (e.g. a grain field), this could be a delight.

- If the green area is also a combustible area (e.g. a grain field), it could be a delight. Vehicles with low ground clearance and catalysts should not drive these areas, as they can trigger small area fires, which then endanger the forces by their spread.

- Vehicles with low ground clearance and catalytic converters should not use these surfaces because they can trigger small area fires, which then endanger the forces by their spread. The plier attack on the flanks can also be carried out from the black area.

- The pliers attack on the flanks can also be carried out from the black area. Figure 26 Pliers attack from the black area Image: Staatliche Feuerwehrschule Würzburg Image: @fire Video Pump and Roll (LFS-Schleswig- Holstein) Page 36 RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION 5.5.1.2 Attack on the flame front from the black area23 The flame front can also be attacked from the black area.

- Figure 26 Pinion attack from the black area Image: Staatliche Feuerwehrschule Würzburg Image: @fire Video Pump and Roll (LFS-Schleswig- Holstein) Page 36 TREATMENT RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION 5.5.1.2 Attack on the flame front from the black area23 The flame front can also be attacked from the black area. Depending on the rate of expansion and flame height, this can be the safest and most effective approach.

- Depending on the rate of expansion and the height of the flame, this can be the safest and most effective procedure.

- But caution is also required here. Over the black area can be heat that destroys unprotected brake lines, hydraulic cables and electric cables on the vehicles.

- Above the black area can be heat that destroys unprotected brake lines, hydraulic lines and electric cables on the vehicles. Figure 27 Attack on the flame front from the black area Image: Würzburg State Fire School 5.5.1.3 Fight fires in the ground Fires in the ground can be bog or peat fires, but can also occur in the forest in thick humus layers as well as in the form of embers.

- Figure 27 Attack on the flame front from the black area Image: Staatliche Feuerwehrschule Würzburg 5.5.1.3 Fighting fires in the ground Fires in the ground can be bog or peat fires, but can also occur in the forest in thick humus layers as well as in the form of gluten nests. Depending on the soil condition and composition, fires can occur directly in the ground, which can spread over the root plant of the vegetation prevailing there and penetrate again upwards.

- Depending on the condition and composition of the soil, fires can occur directly in the soil, which can spread over the root plant of the vegetation prevailing there and penetrate up again. Fires under the earth's surface often do not form flames at all and can therefore be only difficult to locate (see pictures below 2.3.2).

- Fires under the earth's surface often do not form flames at all and are therefore difficult to locate (see images below 2.3.2). Such fires can often burn days or weeks before they are discovered and thus spread relatively uncontrollably.

- Such fires can often burn days or weeks before they are discovered and thus spread out relatively uncontrolled. Often, such fires occur in places with sandy soils, due to low water storage capacity or in bog areas where the fire of dry peat surfaces can occur.

- Often such fires occur in places with sandy soils, due to low water storage capacity or in bog areas, where the fire of dry peat areas can occur. Helpful here is a ge- 23 vegetation fires, leaflet for the fire brigades of Bavaria, Staatliche Feuerwehrschule Würzburg, 2022 YouTube https://bit.

- Helpful here is a ge- 23 vegetation fires, leaflet for the fire brigades of Bavaria, Staatliche Feuerwehrschule Würzburg, 2022 YouTube https://bit. ly/2LrZvxi Einsatztechnik (SFS Würzburg) (Fire ForceLearning Bavaria) Page 37 RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION of VEGETABLES naue Exploration with the thermal imaging camera, in order to be able to locate possible fire areas.

- ly/2LrZvxi Einsatztechnik (SFS Würzburg) (Fire WeirLearning Bavaria) Page 37 RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION VEGETION BRANDBECFECTION is an exploration with the thermal imaging camera in order to locate possible fire areas. Subsequently, the ground can be flooded in sections with the help of extinguishing nails, whereby also here the spread should be prevented.

- The soil can then be flooded in sections with the help of extinguishing nails, whereby even here the spread should be prevented. Alternatively or in addition, water can be used with netting agents, which can penetrate deeper into the soil layers.

- Alternatively or in addition, water can be used with netting agents, which can penetrate deeper into the soil layers. If necessary, the use of construction machines or special equipment must be tested with which the fire sites can be dug up or contained.

