# 5.5.2

- Defensive approach24 If the flame lengths are too large or the topographical conditions do not allow direct fire control, there is the possibility to choose a defensive approach. Tactical application is to interrupt the combustion process by removing the fire material or chemically inhibiting the firing process.

- The tactical objective is to interrupt the combustion process by removing the fire material from the fire or by chemically inhibiting the burning process. One advantage of this variant is the relative safety of the forces that do not work directly near the flame front.

- An advantage of this variant is the relative safety of the forces, which do not work directly near the flame front. Nevertheless, there is a danger, since wind-induced flying fires can arise, which are able to skip defensive fire-fighting measures and to make control of the fire more difficult.

- Nevertheless, there is a danger that wind-induced flying fires may arise which are capable of skipping defensive fire-fighting measures and making control of the fire more difficult. Furthermore, changes in the wind speed and direction may lead to a sudden danger to the forces, so that a controlled retreat may become necessary.

- Furthermore, changes in the wind speed and direction may lead to a sudden danger to the forces, so that a controlled retreat may be necessary (observer's task, see point 5.3 of the LACES safety rule).

- (Observant's task, see point 5.3 of LACES safety rule). Contrary to the assumption usual in fire fighting that bar positions are a variant of defensive action and are formed with the help of water from jet tubes, this approach applies only to a limited extent in the field of vegetation fire control.

- Contrary to the assumption that bar positions are a variant of defensive action and are formed with the help of water from jet tubes, this approach is only partially applicable in the fight against vegetation fire. In contrast to building fires, the dimension of vegetation fires can exceed these many times, which leads to the need for a significant increase in operational forces, material and extinguishing water.

- In contrast to building fires, the dimension of vegetation fires can exceed these many times, which means that a considerable increase in the demand for forces, material and extinguishing water is needed. However, bar positions can be used as a last option and without personnel in the hazardous area for infrastructure protection in order to prevent the fire from spreading from vegetation to the infrastructure.

- However, lock positions can be used as a last option and without personnel in the danger area for infrastructure protection to prevent the fire from spreading from vegetation to the infrastructure. If the mentioned components are available, an offensive approach can be chosen.

- If these components are available, an offensive approach can be chosen. Based on the assumption that scarcity exists in the above-mentioned uses and that the precise propagation direction is difficult to predict in the long term, different approaches can be counted among the defensive measures.

- Based on the assumption that there is scarcity in the above-mentioned uses and that the precise direction of propagation is difficult to predict in the long term, different methods can be counted among the defensive measures. 24 vegetation fires, leaflet for the fire brigades of Bavaria, Staatliche Feuerwehrschule Würzburg, 2022 Page 38 RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION In addition to the creation of wound or protective strips, defensive fire control also includes all necessary measures (water extraction, road construction, supply, ...) that support this tactical approach.

- 24 Vegetation fires, leaflet for the fire brigades of Bavaria, Staatliche Feuerwehrschule Würzburg, 2022 Page 38 RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION In addition to the creation of wound or protective strips, defensive fire fighting also includes all necessary measures (water transport, road construction, supply, ...), which support this tactical approach.

- In addition, the use of fire inhibitors25 can act as a chemical fire-sniff. Also, the tactical and controlled use of fire is possible as a defensive measure, but currently not widespread in Germany26.

- The tactical and controlled use of fire is also possible as a defensive measure, but currently not available in Germany26. 5.5.2.1 Setting of snow or wound strips Snails are natural or artificially created areas that are free of combustible vegetation and the corresponding upper layer of soil.

- 5.5.2.1 Snails or wound strips Snails are natural or artificially created areas free of flammable vegetation and the corresponding upper layer of soil. • Wound strips (prevention measure) are areas of combustible material and humic top floor to be kept free from over one metre wide.

- • Wound strip (prevention measure) are areas of combustible material and humic upper floor, over a metre wide. They run on or on both sides along main roads, roads or railway lines.

- They run on or on both sides along main roads, roads or railway lines. A wound strip prevents the passage of a ground fire.

- A wound strip prevents the passage of a ground fire. By repeated harrowing or ploughing in the forest fire season, the function of the wound strip is maintained.

- By repeated harrowing or ploughing in the forest fire season, the function of the wound strip is maintained right. • Fire-snows (in-use tactical measure) are applied to contain the fire only in ongoing use.

- • Fire traps (in-use tactical measure) are used to limit the fire only in ongoing use. They are areas free of combustible material and humic surface, which must have at least 1.5 times the width of the adjacent vegetation.

- They are areas to be kept free of combustible material and humic upper soil, which must have at least 1.5 times the width of the adjacent vegetation. 25 gel forming agents, also called retardants, are additives to the extinguishing water, which are used mainly for fire fighting in vegetation fires.

- 25 gel forming agents, also known as retardants, are additives to the extinguishing water, which are used mainly for fire fighting in vegetation fires. They should, for example, reduce evaporation, increase the boiling point and by their colour make the places on which already extinguishing agents have been applied better recognizable.

- They should, for example, reduce evaporation, increase the boiling point and, by their colour, make the places on which extinguishing agents have already been applied more visible. 26 The tactical use of a pre-fire was successfully applied in Germany in 2022, for example, during a disaster forest fire in Beelitz/ Brandenburg by the expert association @fire.

- 26 The tactical use of a forefire was successfully applied in Germany in 2022, for example, during a disaster forest fire in Beelitz/Brandenburg by the expert association @fire. It can be assumed that this tactical measure will become increasingly important in the future.

- It can be assumed that this tactical measure will become increasingly important in the future, but it should only be applied by suitably trained experts.

- Page 39 RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION Figure 28 Wound Strips State Fire School Würzburg • Fire bars (prevention measure) is a 100 to 300 metre wide area covered with fire-resistant (rub) trees, shrubs and fire-retardant soil vegetation.

- Page 39 RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION Figure 28 Wound Strips State Fire School Würzburg • Fire Bar (prevention measure) is an area about 100 to 300 meters wide, which is covered with fire-resistant (rub) trees, shrubs and fire-resistant ground vegetation. A forest fire bar is intended to convert open-up full fires into more easily combatable ground fires or prevent the spread of ground fires and, if necessary, withdraw its energy from a fire roller.

- In the event of a fire, a forest fire bar should convert full fires into more easily combatable ground fires or prevent the spread of ground fires and, if necessary, withdraw their energy from a fire roller. • Protective strips (prevention measure) are approximately 20 to 30 meters wide areas with trees, which are free of easily combustible materials (rice, scrub, etc.).

- • Protective strips (prevention measure) are about 20 to 30 meters wide areas with trees, which are free of easily combustible material (rice, bushes, etc.). Weak and dry trees are removed as- as remaining pines are latched at a height of 4 meters.

- Weak and dry trees are removed as much as remaining pines are latched at a height of 4 meters. For the implementation of defensive tactics it makes sense to exploit natural or topographical conditions (roads, paths, rivers, terrain forms, ...).

- It makes sense to use natural or topographical conditions (roads, paths, rivers, terrains, etc.) for the implementation of defensive tactics. The expansion of already existing tracks, for example in the form of existing forest paths, can be done with relatively little effort.

- The extension of already existing cut irons, for example in the form of existing forest paths, can be done with relatively little effort. In the installation or extension of cut iron, it is important that the work is completed when the fire front hits to the extent that the further spread can be prevented.

- It is important for the installation or extension of the cut iron that the work is completed when the fire front hits so that the further propagation can be prevented. Equally important is the sufficiently large dimensioning of the cut iron, especially in wind driven side 40 RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION Fires to prevent a skipping of the fire.

- Equally important is the sufficiently large dimensioning of the cut iron, especially in wind-driven side 40 RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION Fires to prevent skipping of the fire. When using cut irons, the fist formula applies that they must have at least 1.5 times the width of the rise adjacent to the fire-snike.

- In the case of snow-making, the formula is that these must have a width of at least 1.5 times the width of the walls adjacent to the fire-sniff. These must be defended and the fire-sniff side monitored on spot fire.

- These must be defended and the fire-removed side monitored for spot fire. The creation of fire guns can take place in different ways and depends on the local conditions (vegetation, access, available equipment, ...).

- The use of fire guns can be carried out in different ways and depends on the local conditions (vegetation, access, available equipment, ...). When using heavy equipment, care must be taken to ensure that the success desired for the fire service is also achieved.

- When using heavy equipment, care must be taken to ensure that the success desired for the fire service is also achieved. In order to ensure the effect addressed, it must be taken into account in advance that the machines suitable for the purpose are used and that the area to be freed is cleaned with the necessary care when using the equipment.

- In order to ensure this effect, it is necessary to take into account in advance that the machines suitable for the purpose are used and that the area to be freed is cleaned with the necessary care at the time of installation. In order to ensure the desired success, the use of an observer or coordinator (not to be confused with the LACES position observer from section 5.3) is recommended, which guides and monitors the work.

- In order to ensure the desired success, it is recommended to use an observer or coordinator (not to be confused with the situation observer from the LACES rule in section 5.3) to guide and monitor the work. If necessary, post-processing with hand tools is necessary.

- If necessary, post-processing with hand tools is necessary. In principle, the combination of the use of various equipment – machine-related equipment and hand tools, but also different hand tools – must be taken into account when planning.

- In principle, the combination of the use of various devices – machine-related devices and hand tools, but also different hand tools – must be taken into account during the planning process. Fire can also be directed in a targeted direction by the construction of wound strips in appropriate circumstances.

- Fire can also be directed in a targeted direction by the construction of wound strips in appropriate conditions. If, at the end of the fire, there is a firm obstacle, so that it is not offered any possibility of further spreading, it expires without further fighting.

- If, at the end of the fire, there is a firm obstacle, so that it is not offered any possibility of further spreading, it will disappear without further fighting. Such obstacles can be rivers or lakes.

- Such obstacles can be rivers or lakes. Also targeted burnt areas, which are additionally irrigated, can be used.

- Also specifically burnt surfaces, which are additionally irrigated, can be used. page 41 RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION

