# 5.6.1

- Generally speaking, due to the positive properties of the heat absorption capacity and the resulting extinguishing effect, water is usually used as an extinguishing agent. Basically, the following factors should be taken into account in the extinguishing work: • combat only fire sections with open flames with water and intensive flame development; • extinguish fires with C and ideally D pipes usually sufficiently (due to the quantities of extinguishing water released and the still possible manoeuvrability of the extinguishing pipes [weight]); • use spray jet to fight the fire hem and prevent spreading.

- In principle, the following factors should be taken into account in the extinguishing work: • fight with water only fire sections with open flames and an intensive flame development; • extinguish fires with C- and ideally D-tubes usually sufficient (due to the quantities of extinguishing water released and the still possible maneuverability of the extinguishing lines [weight]); • use spray jet to fight the fire hem and prevent spreading. Complete extinguishing and re-extinguishing of the fire hem only in a later step with a further extinguishing vehicle or fire crews; • after the outer hem of the fire has been extinguished, the entire fire surface can be extinguished; • before the extinguishing vehicle may be extinguished.

- Complete extinguishing and re-extinguishing of the fire sore only in a later step with an additional extinguishing vehicle or fire crews, • after the outer sore of the fire has been extinguished, the entire fire surface can be extinguished, • before the extinguishing vehicle may be placed on burnt surface, the intended floor surface must be completely extinguished.

- 27 Manual against vegetation fire Thüringen However, the use of extinguishing water is usually limited in larger applications due to the lack of or insufficient water supply at the beginning of the operation.

- 27 Manual against vegetation fire Thüringen The use of extinguishing water is, however, usually limited for larger applications due to the lack of existing or insufficient water supply at the beginning of the use. Thus, if possible, the use of the existing extinguishing water should be treated sparingly and effectively (use of hand tools and D-tubes and extinguishing backpacks).

- Thus, if position-related possible, the use of the existing extinguishing water should be treated sparingly and effectively (use of hand tools and D-tubes and extinguishing backpacks).

- Check the use of netting agents to increase efficiency. The construction of stationary extinguishing water supplies according to FwDV 3 should be avoided with these highly dynamic layers in principle.

- The construction of stationary extinguishing water supplies according to FwDV 3 should in principle be avoided with these highly dynamic layers. The protection of infrastructure is an exception here.

- The protection of infrastructure is an exception. page 42 RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION REGISTRATION

