# 5.6.2

- Application techniques 5.6.2.1 Offensive application techniques • Use of water-bearing vehicles28 In the case of vegetation fires with appropriate access and departure possibilities, the use of suitable, off-road extinguishing vehicles is possible. The unit leader must first explore in detail in order to find a suitable anchor point.

- The unit leader must first explore in detail to find a suitable anchor point. Here, the load capacity of the ground must be tested and the initial installation area of the vehicle freed if necessary from Glutnestern.

- The load bearing capacity of the ground must be tested and the initial installation area of the vehicle freed from glutnesters if necessary. Starting from the hazards prevailing at the site of application, fire control can then begin with the help of the most diverse extinguishing techniques.

- Starting from the hazards prevailing at the site of operation, firefighting can then begin with the help of the most diverse firefighting techniques. The dynamic firefighting technology in vegetation firefighting is characterized by the fact that the vehicle moves almost the same with the firefighting team during firefighting.

- The dynamic extinguishing technology in the vegetation fire control is characterized by the fact that the vehicle moves almost the same with the extinguishing team during fire fighting. In the dynamic process, D hoses of different lengths are connected directly to the vehicle.

- D hoses of different lengths are connected directly to the vehicle during dynamic operations. Suitable transition pieces or a distributor between the hose and the vehicle must be closed directly for the use of these hose sizes.

- For the use of these hose sizes, suitable transition pieces or a distributor between the hose and the vehicle are to be closed directly. For this purpose, there are various variants, which are briefly explained after pump and roll operation (water pumps and driving) In the above variant, both the permanently installed fire-fighting centrifugal pump (FPN) and the portable fire-fighting centrifugal pump (PFPN) promote extinguishing water, while the associated fire-fighting vehicle moves forward simultaneously at a maximum pace.

- For this purpose, there are various variants that are briefly explained in the following way Pump and roll operation (water pumps and driving) In the above-mentioned variant, both the permanently installed fire-fighting centrifugal pump (FPN) and the portable fire-fighting centrifugal pump (PFPN) promote extinguishing water, while the associated fire-fighting vehicle moves forward at a maximum pace.The crew of the respective vehicle takes on fire-fighting tasks in combination with extinguishing water and, if necessary, hand tools.

- The crew of the respective vehicle takes on firefighting tasks in combination with extinguishing water and, if necessary, hand tools. The respective unit is guided by the unit leader, who also, in contact with the driver, specifies the speed of movement.

- The unit is guided by the unit leader, who also, in contact with the driver, specifies the speed of movement. Since the pump drive is carried out by means of the auxiliary drive of the vehicle with an FPN, some special features have to be taken into account here: • If an off-road reduction is not possible, pump and roll operation is usually not possible, since the speed of the vehicle is too high at the corresponding speed of the FPN.

- Since the pump drive is carried out by means of the auxiliary drive of the vehicle with an FPN, some special features have to be taken into account here: • If an off-road reduction is not possible, pump and roll operation is usually not possible, since at the corresponding speed of the FPN the speed of the vehicle is too high. In these cases, the following caterpillar operation is recommended.

- In the cases described below the caterpillar operation is recommended. 28 vegetation fires, leaflet for the fire brigades of Bavaria, Staatliche Feuerwehrschule Würzburg, 2022 Never use the "Quick Attack" for the extinguishing attack, but to secure your own vehicle!

- 28 Vegetation fires, leaflet for the fire brigades of Bavaria, Staatliche Feuerwehrschule Würzburg, 2022 Never use the "Quick Attack" for the extinguishing attack, but to secure your own vehicle! Page 43 RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION If there is an off-road reduction, the FPN is to be prepared for the water drainage first: o Close drainage, o Open tank discharge, o Open tank filling line, to avoid pump overheating at zero absorption o Close pressure discharges and only open the pressure discharge via which the water discharge is to be carried out.

- Page 43 TREATMENT RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION If there is an off-road reduction, prepare the FPN for the water discharge first: o Close drainage, o Open tank outlet, o Open tank filling line to avoid pump overheating at zero removal o Close pressure discharges and open only the pressure outlet via which the water outlet is to be operated. • Then start the vehicle and the secondary drive, taking into account the following procedure: o Pull the hand brake or start the engine of the vehicle in idle mode, o Switch the off-road reduction, o Enter the clutch and power the secondary drive, o Move the vehicle forward according to the direction of the unit driver.

- • Then start the vehicle and the secondary drive, taking into account the following procedure: o Pull the hand brake o Start the vehicle's engine in idle mode, o Turn on the terrain reduction, o Enter the clutch and switch on the secondary drive, o Move the vehicle forward according to the direction of the unit driver. In a vehicle with a PFPN, the procedure is easier because the vehicle engine and the engine of the PFPN operate independently of each other.

- In the case of a vehicle with a PFPN, the procedure is easier because the vehicle engine and the engine of the PFPN operate independently of each other. However, it should be noted here that the control roller of the pump cannot happen out of the vehicle.

- However, it should be noted here that the pump control system cannot happen out of the vehicle. Figure 29 Pump and roll operation of a relay image: Würzburg State Fire School YouTube Video Pump and Roll (FF Baden) Page 44 RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION VEGETABLE BRANDANCE Tracker operation (stop and go) In the caterpillar technology, the attack team works with a D-hose.

- Figure 29 Pump and Roll operation of a season Picture: Würzburg State Fire School YouTube Video Pump and Roll (FF Baden) Page 44 TREATMENT RECOMMENDATION VEGETABLES TREATMENT Track operation (Stop and Go) In the caterpillar technology, the attack team works with a D-hose. On signs of the unit leader, the extinguishing vehicle moves in the desired direction.

- On signs of the unit driver the extinguishing vehicle moves in the desired direction. During the driving operation the FPN is in the disabled state.

- During the driving operation, the FPN is in shut down condition. Only when the extinguishing vehicle comes to the end, the machine operator switches the pump on and the attack group can start the extinguishing process until the hose length is exhausted.

- Only when the extinguishing vehicle comes to the end, the machinist switches on the pump and the attack group can start with the extinguishing process until the hose length is exhausted. The process is always repeated until the extinguishing success has occurred or the extinguishing agent is used.

- The process is always repeated until the extinguishing success has occurred or the extinguishing agent has been consumed. The movement is similar to that of a caterpillar.

- The movement is similar to that of a caterpillar. Sometimes the term "snail operation" is also to be read.

- Sometimes the term "snail operation" is also to be read. When using a PFPN, the pump is always switched on.

- When using a PFPN, the pump is always switched on. Figure 30 Tracking technology of a group Image: Staatliche Feuerwehrschule Würzburg, processed Michael Bendt Page 45 TREATMENT RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION • Use of small extinguishers The use of small extinguishers is also possible.

- Figure 30 Group caterpillar technology Image: Würzburg State Fire School, edited by Michael Bendt Page 45 RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION • Use of small extinguishers The use of small extinguishers is also possible.

- However, the length of the flame must also be considered. In general, the following formula can be used.

- In general, the following fist formula can be used. Flame length Application instructions Hip height approx. 1.2 m Use of hand tools (small extinguishers, fire patches, shovels, ...) possible.

- Flame length Instructions for use Hip height approx. 1.2 m Use of hand tools (small extinguishers, fire patches, shovels, ...) possible. Man height up to approx. 2 m Combating the fire front, if at all, only possible with several jet tubes and sufficient extinguishing water.

- Man height up to approx. 2 m Combating the fire front, if at all, only possible with several jet tubes and sufficient extinguishing water. Particular attention must be paid to the security of the forces.

- Special attention must be paid to the security of the forces. From about 2 m extreme and fast, often uncontrolled fire propagation possible.

- From about 2 m extreme and fast, often uncontrolled fire propagation possible. Absolutely consider a defensive action tactics.

- Figure 31 Faust formula Use of extinguishers Image: Staatliche Feuerwehrschule Würzburg, edited Michael Bendt Examples of small extinguishers Pumps Extinguishing backpack Fire patch Figure 32 Small extinguishers Pictures: Gemeinschaft Feuerwehrfachhandel Deutschland Page 46 TREATMENT RECOMMENDATION VEGETIONSBRANDBEKÄMPUNG YouTube https://bit.

- Figure 31 Faust formula Use of extinguishers Image: Staatliche Feuerwehrschule Würzburg, bearbeitet Michael Bendt Examples of small-scale extinguishing devices Kubelspritze Löschrucksack Feuerpatsche Figure 32 Small-scale extinguishing devices Pictures: Community Firefighter Trade Germany Page 46 NEGOTIATION RECOMMENDATION VEGETABLE RECOMMENDATION YouTube https://bit. ly/2qvEpa8 Handtools (SFS Würzburg) (Fire WehrwehrLearning Bavaria) Video Feuerpatsche (LFS Schleswig-Holstein) Video Löschrucksack (LFS Schleswig-Holstein) Page 47 NEGOTIATION RECOMMENDATION VEGETABLE RECOMMENDATION 5.6.2.2 Firefighting from the air Drones can make an important contribution to the exploration, ongoing situation-relevant information winning and early detection of spot fires.

- ly/2qvEpa8 Handwerkzeuge (SFS Würzburg) (Fire WeirLearning Bavaria) Video Feuerpatsche (LFS Schleswig- Holstein) Video Löschrucksack (LFS Schleswig- Holstein) Page 47 TREATMENT RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION 5.6.2.2 Firefighting from the air Drones can make an important contribution to the exploration, ongoing situation-relevant information winning and early detection of spot fires. They should therefore be integrated into the application early (initial phase).

- They should therefore be integrated into the operation at an early stage (initial phase). Should the use of aircraft beyond drones be required, these must be requested in good time via the integrated rescue control stations at the Interior Minister's office in Schleswig-Holstein.

- Should the use of aircraft beyond drones be required, these must be requested in good time via the integrated rescue control stations at the Ministry of Interior in Schleswig-Holstein. The relevant statements on the use of aircraft can be taken from the technical recommendation "Aerial Firefighting Air Operations for and through the fire brigade" of the DFV.

- The relevant statements on the use of aircraft can be taken from the technical recommendation "Aerial Firefighting Air Operations for and through the fire brigade" of the DFV. 5.6.2.3 Re-extinguishing work The re-extinguishing work has to be carried out with the greatest care, as various operations in recent years have shown that many fires have arisen from small fires that have not been completely extinguished.

- 5.6.2.3 Re-extinguishing work The re-extinguishing work has to be carried out with the utmost care, as various operations in recent years have shown that many fires have arisen from small fires that have not been completely extinguished. Therefore, the following measures are always required as re-extinguishing work: • Exposing and erasure of embers, • Applying a lot of extinguishing water under correspondingly high pressure, • Control of the area with thermal imaging cameras (see pictures in section 2.3.2).

- Therefore, the following measures are always required as re-extinguishing work: • exposure and extinguishing of embers, • application of a lot of extinguishing water under correspondingly high pressure, • control of the area with thermal imaging cameras (see pictures in section 2.3.2). Intensifying information on the method of post-extinguishing work can be taken from the training module "Vegetation fire - re-extinguishing work" of the project Waldbrand-Klima-Resiliz29.

- In-depth information on the method of post-extinguishing work can be taken from the training module "Vegetation Fire - Re-extinguishing Work" of the project Waldbrand-Klima-Resilizenz29. 5.6.2.4 Defensive Application Techniques • Installation of Fire Guns30 The installation of fire guns with the help of hand tools is a laborious process that requires the efficient use of tools and personnel.

- 5.6.2.4 Defensive Application Techniques • Installation of fireshoes30 The installation of fireshoes with the help of hand tools is a laborious process that requires the efficient use of tools and personnel. Scooping and especially spades with as sharp and sharp a leaf as possible are particularly suitable for loosening soils, especially when they are crossed with finely branched rootwork.

- In particular, shovels and especially spades with as sharp and sharp a leaf as possible are particularly suitable for the relaxation of soils, especially if they are crossed with finely branched root plants. Further hacking or clearing tools, especially suitable for the installation of fireshoes, should be used in a meaningful combination, in order to provide as fast and energy-friendly 29 project "Waldbrand-Klima-Resilizenz" (short: WKR), which is financially supported by the Forest Climate Fund of the Federal Ministry for Food and Agriculture (BMEL) and the Federal Ministry for the Environment, Nature Conservation and Nuclear Safety (BMU).

- Further hacking or clearing tools, especially suitable for the installation of fire traps, are to be used in a useful combination in order to financially support 29 project "Waldbrand-Klima-Resilizenz" (short: WKR), which is funded by the Forest Climate Fund of the Federal Ministry of Food and Agriculture (BMEL) and the Federal Ministry for the Environment, Nature Conservation and Nuclear Safety (BMU). 30 vegetation fires, leaflet for the fire brigades of Bavaria, Staatliche Feuerwehrschule Würzburg, 2022 Page 48 HANDLING RECOMMENDATION VEGETABLES RECOMMENDATION to be used.

- 30 Vegetation fires, leaflet for the fire brigades of Bavaria, Staatliche Feuerwehrschule Würzburg, 2022 Page 48 TREATMENT RECOMMENDATION VEGETION BRANDBECFECTION to be used. Here, the order of the use of hacking and subsequent clearing tools must be observed.

- Examples of hand tools Frankfurter Schaufel Spades smooth Spades pointed Holsteiner Schaufel Figure 33 Hand tools for fire fighting, Part 1 Images: Staatliche Feuerwehrschule Würzburg Pulaski-Axt Gorgui-Tool Wiedehopfhaue McLeod-Tool Dunghacke Figure 34 Hand tools for fire fighting, Part 2 Images: Staatliche Feuerwehrschule Würzburg The hand tools listed here are also suitable for offensive use in combination with small extinguishers.

- Examples of hand tools Frankfurter Schaufel Spades smooth Spades pointed Holsteiner Schaufel Figure 33 Handicraft tools for fire fighting, Part 1 Images: Staatliche Feuerwehrschule Würzburg Pulaski-Axt Gorgui-Tool Wiedehopfhaue McLeod-Tool Dunghacke Figure 34 Handicraft tools for fire fighting, Part 2 Images: Staatliche Feuerwehrschule Würzburg The hand tools listed here are also suitable for offensive techniques in combination with small extinguishers.

- Page 49 RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION • The following procedure is recommended for the installation of fireshoes: Group 1 starts with the tillage for a fireshoe. Group 2 starts with a offset with the tillage for a fireshoe.

- Squad 2 begins with a set-up with the tillage for a fire snow. Squad 3 ...... • As described in Section 5.5.2.1 (Snow-making) it is important to note that the fire snow must have at least 1.5 times the width of the adjacent vegetation.

- Squad 3 ...... • As described in Section 5.5.2.1 (Snow-making) it is important to note that the fire snow must have at least 1.5 times the width of the adjacent vegetation. Page 50 RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION RECOMMENDATION 6 Management organisation and communication

