# 30.10.2019

- A N T W O R T on the question by Mr Ralf Georgi (DIE LINKE.) on

- Concerning: Impact of climate change: Increased requirements for measures to prevent and combat forest and vegetation fires Preliminary remark by the questioner: "Due to extreme weather conditions (heavy rain events, hail, storm) the Saarland relief and rescue forces were strongly demanded in the past.

- : Impact of climate change: Increased requirements for measures to prevent and combat forest and vegetation fires Preliminary remark by the questioner: "Due to extreme weather conditions (heavy rain events, hail, storm) the Saarland relief and rescue forces were strongly demanded in the past. Climate change is also noticeable by extraordinary heat waves, accompanied by long periods of drought with corresponding forest fire risk.

- Climate change is also noticeable by exceptional heat waves, accompanied by long periods of drought with corresponding forest fire risk. Since the beginning of the weather records in 1881, there have been no such high temperatures in Saarland.

- Since the beginning of the weather records in 1881, there have been no such high temperatures in Saarland. In June and July 2019, representatives of the SaarForest and the Environmental Board appealed to all forest visitors to avoid open fire and smoking in the forest.

- In June and July 2019, representatives of the SaarForst and the Umweltmi- nisterium appealed to all forest visitors to avoid open fire and smoking in the forest. Even a glimmering cigarette that is thrown away lightly or a non-regular grill fire could trigger a forest fire.

- Even a glimmering cigarette that is thrown away lightly or a not properly grilled fire could trigger a forest fire. Also the very hot catalysts of cars could cause fires on dry forest soils or dry meadows.

- Also the very hot catalysts of cars could cause fires on dry forest soils or dry meadows. Saarland has about 90,000 hectares of forest area, which is about 35 percent of the country's area.

- The Saarland has about 90,000 hectares of forest area, which is about 35 percent of the country's area. However, the requirements for prevention for the protection of forests as well as for the fight against forest fire and vegetation fires are growing with increasing fire risk.

- However, the requirements for prevention for the protection of forests as well as for the fight against forest fire and vegetation fires are also growing with increasing fire risk.Established: 31.10.2019 (29.07.2019) Drucksache 16/1055 (16/919) Landtag des Saarlandes - 16. Electoral period - - 2 - Preliminary remark of the state government: The vegetation fire protection is technically divided into preventive and defensive fire protection.

- Election period - - 2 - Preliminary remark of the state government: The vegetation fire protection is technically divided into the preventive and defensive fire protection. In the preventive vegetation fire protection, which is mainly the responsibility of the agriculture or forest ministries of the countries, the preventive measures are in the foreground.

- Preventive vegetation fire protection, which is primarily the responsibility of the ministries of agriculture or forestry in the countries, is the focus of preventive measures. Meanwhile, the defence against vegetation fire protection falls within the competence of the ministries of the interior of the country and is characterized by the classic ground- and air-bound fire control by the fire defenders.

- Meanwhile, anti-vegetable fire protection falls within the responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior and is characterized by the classic ground- and air-bound fire control by the fire defenders. The common goal of the preventive and anti-forest fire protection is to prevent or not to create vegetation fires or to reduce the effects.

- The common aim of the preventive and defensive forest fire protection is to prevent or not to create vegetation fires or to mitigate the effects. The more effective the preventive forest fire protection can be designed over the forest owners (private forest/municipal forest/Landeswald/Bundesforst/Kirchenwald etc.), the less the emergence of large forest fires or the more targeted forest fires can be combated.

- In the light of the new challenges posed by the new national forest fire strategy, the task of the Standing Conference of National Ministers and Senators of the Länder (IMK) was to address these issues in a comprehensive manner and to develop a national forest fire strategy, taking into account the new challenges.

- Against this background, the country-wide working group "National Forest Fire Protection", which was newly established this year, was tasked by the Permanent Conference of National Ministers and Senators of the Länder (IMK) to deal with these issues in a comprehensive manner and to develop a national forest fire strategy taking into account the new challenges. Does the Saarland have a comprehensive forest fire concept in which the experiences of other countries with forest fire control have been incorporated?

- Does the Saarland have a comprehensive forest fire concept in which the experiences of other countries with forest fire control have been incorporated? If not, why not?

- If not, why not? Is such a forest fire concept planned, for example, in cooperation with the Landkreisen/Landeshaupt-stadt Saarbrücken as the lower supervisory authority in the fire protection sector, the municipalities, the Saarforst and the fire brigade association?

- Is such a forest fire concept planned, for example, in cooperation with the Landkreisen/the state capital Saarbrücken as the lower supervisory authority in the fire protection sector, the municipalities, the Saarforst and the fire brigade association? on Question 1: Fires in forests are a specific form of vegetation fires.

- on Question 1: Fires in forests are a specific form of vegetation fires. The most important for the operational measures to combat fires are the vegetation type (needlewood, hardwood, or mixed forest stock), type of fire (ground, bush or top fire), size of the area affected by fire, topography, wind resistance, spread speed, accessibility and fire water supply.

- The most important factors for the use of fire-fighting tactics are vegetation (needlewood, hardwood, or mixed forest), fire type (ground, bush or top fire), size of the area affected by the fire, topography, wind conditions, rate of spread, accessibility and fire-fighting water supply. The first responsibility for fire-fighting lies with the municipalities as a vehicle for fire brigades, including over-urban assistance in the event of large-scale fire events.

- First of all, the responsibility for fire fighting lies with the municipalities as carriers of the fire brigades, including overlocal assistance in the event of major fire events. To this end, the fire brigades have the appropriate alarm and exit regulations, which ensure a needs-based alarming of the necessary operational forces and means.

- In the field of forest management, all employees, especially the district managers, are qualified for forest fire control as part of their training.

- In the area of forest management, all employees, especially the district managers, are qualified for forest fire control as part of their training. They are required to seek contact with local fire brigades in the area of their area.

- They are obliged to seek contact with the local fire brigades in the area of their territory. This procedure has proved its worth so far and the small fires could be extinguished in reasonable times.

- This approach has proved its worth so far, and the small fires of the past have been extinguished in reasonable times. This cooperation has also worked well with the biggest forest fire event in decades this summer at Mettlach.

- This cooperation has also worked well with the biggest forest fire event in decades this summer at Mettlach. Nevertheless, the Zu- Drucksache 16/1055 (16/919) Landtag des Saarlandes - 16.

- Nevertheless, it is planned to systematize the Zu- Drucksache 16/1055 (16/919) Landtag des Saarlandes - 16th legislative term - - 3 - cooperation, as climate change and the more frequent periods of drought and heat have now increased the risk of forest fire compared with 10 to 20 years ago.

- Election period - - 3 - to systematise cooperation, as climate change and the more frequent drought and heat periods have now increased the risk of forest fire compared to 10 to 20 years ago. The transnational working group "Nati- onaler Waldbrandschutz" (Nati- onaler Waldbrandschutz), which was set up by the interior ministers of the countries, is working intensively on overarching approaches and concepts for combating forest and land fires.

- The country-wide working group "Nati- onaler Waldbrandschutz" (Nati- onaler Waldbrandschutz), which is set up by the interior ministers of the countries, is working intensively on overarching approaches and concepts for the fight against forest and land fires.

- However, in the context of vegetarian fire protection, there are different responsibilities between prevention and fire-fighting. Therefore, the Agriculture Ministerial Conference agreed to an institutional cooperation of the Working Group "Bund/Länder- Arbeitsgemeinschaft Forst (Forest Chief Conference)" with the Working Group "National Forest Fire Protection".

- For this reason, the Agriculture Ministerial Conference has agreed to an institutional cooperation between the Working Group on Forests (Forest/Country Working Group) and the Working Group on National Forest Fire Protection. One aim of the Working Group is to draw up technical policy documents for the fight against vegetation fire as well as a national forest fire strategy.

- One aim of the working group is to draw up technical policy documents for the fight against vegetation fire and a national forest fire strategy. This development needs to be awaited for a comprehensive forest fire protection concept in Saarland.

- For a comprehensive forest fire protection concept in the Saarland, this development has to be awaited. Are there areas/forests in the Saarland which are considered to be particularly vulnerable to fire or could be particularly forcing forest fires through their structure?

- Are there areas/forests in Saarland which are considered to be particularly vulnerable to fire or which could be particularly affected by forest fires due to their structure? (please list)?

- (please list)? to Question 2: Basically, the wood-rich Saarland forest, which has been cultivated as a Dau- erwald for 30 years and is mixed with tree species and age, is far less endangered than the coniferous forests in Mecklenburg-Vorpommern or Brandenburg.

- on Question 2: Basically, the wood-rich Saarland forest, which has been cultivated as a Dau- erwald for 30 years and is mixed with tree species and age, is far less vulnerable to fire like the coniferous forests in Mecklenburg-Vorpommern or Brandenburg. There are individual, small forest areas where a forest fire could arise.

- There are individual, small forest areas in which a forest fire could arise. These areas have to be given special attention by the managers.

- These areas need to be given special attention by the farmers. The establishment of a list of these "small areas" would involve a high level of staffing and time, since they are spread across the entire Saarland forest.

- The setting up of a list of these "small areas" would involve a high level of personnel and time, since they are spread over the entire Saarland forest. It is also one of the tasks of a district manager to know the critical areas, which also change over the years.

- It is also one of the tasks of a district manager to know the critical points, which also change over the years again and again. Although the development of a wild area largely unaffected by humans is generally to be welcomed (Urwald project), in the case of fire, however, wide forest paths would be necessary, among other things, for fire fighting.

- Although the development of a largely uninformed wilderness is generally to be welcomed (Urwald project), in the event of a fire, however, wide forest paths would be necessary, among other things, to combat fire. What possibilities of fire fighting does the state government see in such protected areas?

- What possibilities does the state government see for fighting fire in such protected areas? on Question 3: Both the forest areas belonging to the national park and the over 1,000 hectares "Urwald vor den Toren der Stadt" (with minimal exceptions) have the old forest infrastructure network, which is designed for trucks with a total weight of 40 tonnes.

- on question 3: Both the forest areas belonging to the national park and the over 1,000 hectares "Urwald vor den Toren der Stadt" (with minimal exceptions) have the old forest path network, which is designed for trucks with a total weight of 40 tons. The paths are still walkable and conditionally passable.

- The paths are still accessible and partly passable. The considerable reduction of the light space profile by branches that protrude into the paths makes it difficult to drive these paths.

- The considerable reduction in the light-space profile by branches that protrude into the paths makes it more difficult to navigate these paths. However, the structure of these protected areas significantly reduces the risk of fire, so that a vegetation fire according to previous standards is very unlikely.

- However, the structure of these protected areas significantly reduces the risk of fire, so that a vegetation fire according to previous standards is very unlikely. If there is a lot of forest rejuvenation with green leaves in a high forest in the soil area, this makes it difficult to develop a fire to a significant extent.

- If there is a lot of forest rejuvenation with green leaves in a high forest in the soil area, this makes a fire to a considerable extent difficult.

- Document 16/1055 (16/919) Landtag des Saarlandes - 16th legislative term - - 4 - Incidentally, a forest fire in a natural forest is a very rare crop, but nevertheless a naturally occurring one.

- Electoral period - - 4 - In a natural forest, a forest fire is indeed a very rare crop, but nevertheless a naturally occurring one.What needs does the state government see in the case of special technical equipment in the fires in forest fires or vegetation fires?

- What is the national government's need for specific technical equipment in the case of fires in forest fires or vegetation fires? (e.g. off-road vehicles, specific advice, special (lighter) working clothes, etc.?)

- (e.g. off-road vehicles, specific equipment, special (lighter) working clothes, etc.?) on question 4: The responsible persons for fire protection and technical assistance are according to section 2 of the Act concerning fire protection, technical assistance and civil protection in Saarland (SBKG) of 29 November 2006 (Amtsbl.

- on Question 4: According to Section 2 of the Act on Fire Protection, Technical Assistance and Civil Protection in the Saarland (SBKG) of 29 November 2006 (Amtsbl. p. 2207), as last amended by the Law of 22 August 2018 (Amtsbl.

- 2207), as last amended by the Law of 22 August 2018 (Amtsbl. I p. 674), the municipalities, the districts and the regional association Saarbrücken.

- 674), the municipalities, the districts and the regional association Saarbrücken. Fire brigades are equipped on the basis of the requirements and development plans for fire protection and technical assistance to be carried out by the municipalities, which also consider specific risks, such as forest fires.

- Fire brigades are equipped on the basis of fire safety and technical assistance needs and development plans to be carried out by the municipalities, which also consider specific risks, such as forest fires. Where there is a need for additional equipment due to specific local risks, this is done within the framework of the common competence.

- As far as there is a need for additional equipment due to specific local risks, this is done within the framework of the common competence. In Saarland, the efficient systems of fire and catastrophic protection for the control of vegetation fires are widely available.

- In the Saarland, the efficient systems of fire and catastrophic protection for the control of vegetation fires are available everywhere. The equipment of the fire brigades meets the requirements of the relevant fire protection, accident prevention and fire service regulations.

- The equipment of the fire brigades meets the requirements of the applicable fire protection, accident prevention and fire service regulations. The cities and municipalities in the Saarland have 400 fire-fighting vehicles and more than 80 - partly off-road - tank extinguishing vehicles, which are held, among other things, for the fight against vegetarian fires.

- The cities and municipalities in Saarland have over 400 fire trucks and over 80 - partly off-road - tank extinguishers, which are kept, among other things, for the fight against vegetarian fires. How does the state government assess the possible establishment of circle-wide, so-called "forest fire units", which are specially equipped and trained for this purpose?

- How does the state government assess the possible establishment of circle-wide, so-called "forest fire units", which are specially equipped and trained for this purpose? Examples of appropriate units can be found among other things in our French neighbours.

- Examples of such units can be found, among other things, in our French neighbours. How are the possibilities of a cross-border exchange of experience appreciated?

- How are the possibilities of a cross-border exchange of experience estimated? on Question 5: In the districts as well as in the state capital Saarbrücken, there are already those with specific skills for forest fire control.

- Question 5: In the districts as well as in the state capital Saarbrücken, there are already those with specific skills for forest fire control, which are pre-defined, efficient units for water supply and water extraction (special trains).

- These are predefined, efficient units for water supply and water extraction (specialized trains). Within the framework of the current INTERREG project "INTERRED", in which the Saarland is involved as a strategic partner, a cross-border exchange of experience on this topic can be encouraged.

- Within the framework of the current INTERREG project "INTERRED", in which Saarland is involved as a strategic partner, a cross-border exchange of experience on this topic can be encouraged.

- Case 16/1055 (16/919) Landtag des Saarlandes - 16th legislative term - - 5 - How does the state government view the promotion of equivalent units within the framework of a possible 10 per cent withdrawal from the fire protection tax acc.

- Electoral period - - 5 - What is the state government's position regarding the promotion of appropriate units within the framework of a possible 10 per cent withdrawal from the fire protection tax pursuant to § 48 para. 1 SBKG?

- § 48 Abs. 1 SBKG? To what extent has this resulted in support of the districts and municipalities, which other measures have been funded in addition to fire protection so far?

- To what extent has this resulted in support from the districts and municipalities, which other measures have been funded beyond fire protection? to Question 6: According to § 48 paragraph 1 SBKG, the income from fire protection tax is to be used for fire protection and technical assistance.

- on Question 6: According to § 48 paragraph 1 SBKG, the income from the fire protection tax is to be used for fire protection and technical assistance. Up to 10 of the revenue can be used for civil protection tasks and for the own part of civil protection.

- Up to 10 of the revenue can be used for civil protection tasks and for the own part of civil protection. In the past five years, in the financial years 2015 and 2017, the possible 10 of the hundred SBKG in § 48, paragraph 1, sentence 2, for civil protection tasks and the country's own part of civil protection has been fully exploited.

- In the past five years, in the financial years 2015 and 2017, the 10 of the hundred SBKGs possible in § 48(1) sentence 2 of the Civil Protection Act (SBKG) for tasks of civil protection and the country's own part of civil protection have been fully exploited. Since 2010, six fire-fighting vehicles (LF-KatS) have been procured from these funds.

- Since 2010, six fire-fighting vehicles (LF-KatS) have been procured from these funds. These fire-fighting vehicles are identical to those provided by the Federal Government in the context of the supplementary civil protection civil protection vehicles and are also suitable for the fight against vegetation fire due to the terrain-able chassis as well as the fire-wehr-technical loading.

- These fire-fighting vehicles are identical to those provided by the federal government in the context of the supplementary civil protection civil protection vehicles and are also suitable for the fight against vegetation fire due to the terrain-capable chassis and the fire-wehr-technical loading. Against this background, these vehicles of civil protection are also integrated into the units for the fight against forest fire (see answer to question 5).

- Against this background, these civil protection vehicles are also integrated into the forest fire control units (see answer to question 5). According to section 48 paragraph 2 of the German Civil Protection Act (SBKG), the income from the fire protection tax flows after deduction of the costs incurred by the country for civil protection tasks and the country's own part of civil protection up to the amount of 10 per cent of the tax revenue, the costs incurred by the country for fire protection and technical assistance, as well as a contribution of up to 2.5 per cent of the tax revenue to the municipal organizations for fire protection and technical assistance tasks and to their support in the municipalities.

- According to § 48 paragraph 2 of the German Civil Protection Act (SBKG), after deduction of the costs incurred by the country for civil protection tasks and the country's own part of civil protection, the income from the fire protection tax amounts to 10 % of the tax revenue, the costs incurred by the country for fire protection and technical assistance, as well as a contribution of up to 2.5 % of the tax revenue available to the Ministry of Home Affairs, Building and Sport for the promotion of fire protection and technical assistance to the municipal authorities for fire protection and technical assistance tasks. In the past five years, over 16,6 million were allocated to the municipal associations to promote fire protection and technical assistance tasks in the municipalities.

- Over the past five years, more than 16,6 million have thus been allocated to the municipalities to support fire protection and technical assistance tasks.Funding amount in Euro 2019 3,723,786,35 2018 3,432,057,72 2017 3,964,503,36 2016 2,808,454,11 2015 2,746,081,33 To what extent is training on the special topic "Vegetation and forest fire fighting" taking place at the Saarland Fire School?

- Financial year Funding amount in Euro 2019 3,723,786,35 2018 3,432,057,72 2017 3,964,503,36 2016 2,808,454,11 2015 2,746,081,33 To what extent does the Saarland Fire School provide training on the special topic "Vegetation and forest fire fighting"? Document 16/1055 (16/919) Landtag des Saarlandes - 16.

- Document 16/1055 (16/919) Landtag des Saarlandes - 16th legislative term - - 6 - on Question 7: Currently, no special training and training events are offered at the Saarland Fire School on the subject of "Vegetation and forest fire control".

- Election period - - 6 - on question 7: Currently no special training and training events on the topic "Vegetation and forest fire control" are offered at the Saarland Fire School. The qualification of executives is carried out within the framework of the obligatory management courses (group and train drivers) according to the relevant training regulations for fire brigades.

- The training of managers is carried out within the framework of the compulsory management courses (group and train guides) in accordance with the relevant training regulations for fire brigades. Preparation for major damage situations and disasters, including vegetarian fires, is carried out within the framework of the supplementary management training in the training course "Verbandsführer".

- The preparation for major damage situations and disasters, which can also include vegetarian fires, is carried out within the framework of the supplementary management training in the training course "Verbandsführer" (Verbandsführer).

- In the future, the fight against vegetation fire will be part of the federal training guidelines, which are currently being developed in the state committees. After the adoption of the federal training guidelines, the country-specific training concepts for general fire training as well as management training will be modified if necessary.

- After the adoption of the federal training requirements, the country-specific training concepts for general fire training as well as management training are modified if necessary. To the extent that this results in a supplementary training requirement, additional specific training and training events - at national level in particular in the area of qualification of trainers and managers - are also established.

- To the extent that this results in a supplementary training requirement, additional specific training and training events are also established - at national level in particular in the area of the qualification of trainers and managers. What possibilities does the Saarland have in cooperation with other Federal Länder/Federal authorities to use helicopters for forest fire and vegetation fire control?

- What possibilities does the Saarland have in cooperation with other German/Federal authorities to use helicopters for forest fire or vegetation fire control? Are fire-fighting water outside load carriers ready for this or how are they supplied and how is the personnel support of these equipment provided?

- Are there any external fire-fighting load carriers available or how are they supplied and how is the personnel support of these equipment provided? to question 8: The Saarland has neither its own fire-fighting helicopter nor external fire-fighting tank.

- on Question 8: The Saarland has neither the state-owned fire helicopter nor the extinguishing water outer load tank. The use of helicopters is to be examined in large-scale forest and vegetation fires depending on the location.

- The use of helicopters must be examined in large-scale forest and vegetation fires depending on the situation. If necessary, helicopters, e.g. the Federal Police or the Bundeswehr, can be requested with the appropriate equipment within the framework of the existing and established requirements procedures in the course of a request for assistance via the Federal and Länder Joint Reporting and Situation Centre (GMLZ) in Bonn.

- If necessary, helicopters, e.g. the Bundespolizei or the Bundeswehr, can be requested with appropriate equipment within the framework of the existing and established procedures in the course of a request for assistance via the joint reporting and situation centre of the Federal Government and the Länder (GMLZ) in Bonn. Various experts recommend the use of appropriately equipped drones for the purpose of exploding air for firefighting.

- Various experts recommend the use of correspondingly equipped drones for the purpose of exploding air for firefighting. Is there any such technology in Saarland to support forest fire and vegetation fire fighting?

- Is there any such technique in Saarland to support forest fire and vegetation fire fighting? If not, why not?

- If not, why not? Is it intended to make appropriate technology centrally available?

- Is it intended to make appropriate technology centrally available?

- Drucksache 16/1055 (16/919) Landtag des Saarlandes - 16th legislative term - - 7 - on Question 9: The exploration from the air in large areas by means of drones has already established itself in the Saarland.

- Electoral period - - 7 - on question 9: The exploration from the air in large-scale locations by means of drones has already established itself in Saarland. Four districts already have such information systems.

- Four counties already have such notification systems. A system is currently being procured.

- A system is currently being procured, and in the framework of super-territorial assistance, these exploration systems can be used on request throughout the country.

