# 0

- Forestry Forest structural forest fire prevention – Recommendations for tree species selection and forest-building measures in the Land of Brandenburg 1 In the context of the promotion of forest fire protection locking systems and the organization for the installation and maintenance of forest fire protection strips and forest fire protection bars in accordance with § 20 (1) Waldgesetz des Landes Brandenburg (LWaldG), recommendations on forest-building measures and tree species selection are given below.

- § 20 (1) Waldgesetz des Landes Brandenburg (LWaldG) (Forest Law of the State of Brandenburg) is given following recommendations on forest building measures and on the selection of tree species. I. Protection and wound stripping systems Protective and wound stripping systems are structures that shield objects from which a special forest fire risk arises.

- I. Protective and wound stripping systems Protective and wound stripping systems are structures that shield objects that pose a particular forest fire risk. In addition, they are intended to stop ground fire and prevent full fire (MIßBACH 1982, RdB Cottbus 1987, KÖNIG 2007, KAULFUß 2011, BENTELE et al.

- In addition, they should stop ground fires and prevent full fire (MIßBACH 1982, RdB Cottbus 1987, KÖNIG 2007, KAULFUß 2011, BENTELE et al. 2023).

- 2023). What should be achieved?

- What is to be achieved? Insulation of dangerous objects (e.g. heavy traffic roads, railway lines, camping and barbecue sites, garbage dumps), which can typically result in ground fires, protection of adjacent forest areas from increased forest fire risk, preventing the emergence of full fires or ensuring that only a ground fire can spread when a fire is created on the said hazardous objects, or stopping incoming land fires, or protecting vulnerable villages and sensitive infrastructure What should be taken into account in the installation of combined protection and wound strip systems?

- Insulation of dangerous objects (e.g. heavy traffic roads, railway lines, camping and barbecue sites, garbage dumps), which can result in typical ground fires, protection of adjacent forest areas from increased forest fire risk, preventing the emergence of full fires or ensuring that only a ground fire can spread on the above-mentioned hazardous objects, or stopping incoming ground fires, or protecting vulnerable villages and sensitive infrastructure What is to be considered in the installation of combined protection and wound strip systems? ... and how are they managed?

- ... and how are they managed? 的 Plant always takes place as a combined system of continuous protective and wound strips (Fig. 1)

- The system is always used as a combined system of continuous protective and wound stripes (Fig. 1) - at least 10 m, better 15 to 30 m wide, stocked protective stripes along main roads, one or both sides between or on roads and other dangerous objects (MIßBACH 1982, MÜLLER 2020, OTTO et al. 1976, in: BENTELE et al.

- In 1976, in BENTELE et al. 2023, 2 o the protective strip area with trees must always and completely be freed from easily combustible material (rice, brushwood, dry wood, deep fortification, dead trees) in order to reduce the fire intensity, to avoid fire bridges from the ground to the crown area and thereby to prevent a full fire formation o in the protective strip only the ground vegetation, the litter and the humus support as well as living trees without deep fortification o Astung takes place up to 6 m height, in protective strip of red oak the astung is not mandatory (Fig. 2)

- In the case of the forest floor, the ground floor can be removed from the ground floor or from the ground floor to the ground floor. In the case of the forest floor, the ground floor can be removed from the ground floor or from the ground floor to the ground floor. In the case of the forest floor, the ground floor can be removed from the ground floor or from the ground floor to the ground floor. In the case of the ground floor, fire bridges can be removed from the ground floor or from the ground floor to the ground floor. In the case of the ground floor, fire bridges can be removed from the ground floor or from the ground floor. In the case of the ground floor, fire bridges can be removed from the ground floor or from the ground floor. In the case of the ground floor, the ground floor can be removed from the ground floor. In the case of the ground floor, the ground floor can be removed from the ground floor or from the ground floor. In the case of the ground floor, the ground floor can be removed from the ground floor.

- o It is also recommended to have a work lane running parallel to the road on which wood harvesting machines can be driven, so that the forest can be maintained on both sides of the working street, flammable material must be laid down on the working street and compressed or pressed into the ground by crossing it. This results in hardly combustible material at > 30 depth (at least 10 m protective strips + 2 m wound strips + 2 x 10 m harvester range).

- This results in hardly combustible material at > 30 depth (at least 10 m protective strips + 2 m wound strips + 2 x 10 m harvester range). 3 o The forming of the protective strip can be supplemented on suitable stand locations by following a substructure with shade-bearing trees and shade-giving trees at crown closure (BENTELE et al.

- 3 o The forming of the protective strip can be supplemented on suitable locations by following a substructure with shade-bearing trees and shade-giving trees at crown closure (BENTELE et al. 2023).

- 2023). Due to its high shadow tolerance and its plastic crown, the red beech is particularly suitable for the substructure of protective strips.

- Due to their high shadow tolerance and their plastic crown, the red beech is particularly suitable for the construction of protective strips. 的 Regular care measures: o in the protective strips and in the adjacent forest, rotational forest care is carried out o on the roads, well-kept banquets contribute to the reduction of the seizure of combustible material in Fig. 1: Principle of a protective and wound strip system using the example "Straße- 1 = adjacent forest in a functional condition on the first (min. tens) 30 m, supported by a parallel working street, 3 = wound strip (2 m wide), 4 = protective strips, 5 = road with well-kept banquets (from MÜLLER and JOR- DAN-FRAGSTEIN 2024) 1 3 4 5 4 Fig. 2: Forest fire strip from red oaks (Photo: M. Bentele) Fig. 3: Wound strip along a circular road in the Land of Brandenburg (Photo: J. Engel) 5 II.

- Regular care measures: o in the protective strip and in the adjacent forest, rotational forest care o on the roads, well-kept banquets contribute to the reduction of the incidence of combustible material at Fig. 1: Principle of a protective and wound strip system using the example "Straße 1 = adjacent forest in a purpose-filling condition on the first (min.) 30 m, supported by a parallel working street, 3 = wound strip (2 m wide), 4 = protective strip, 5 = road with well-kept banquets (from MÜLLER and JOR- DAN-FRAGSTEIN 2024) 1 3 4 5 4 Fig. 2: Forest fire strip from red oaks (Photo: M. Bentele) Fig. 3: Wound strip along a circular road in Brandenburg (Photo: J. Engel) 5 II. Forest fire bar Forest fire bars are areas that inhibit the spread of forest fires by converting running full fires into ground fires and thus facilitating fire control measures (MLFN 1977, MIß-BACH 2011), BUTCH, 1982

- Forest fire bars Forest fire bars are areas that inhibit the spread of forest fires by turning incoming full fires into ground fires and thus facilitating fire-fighting measures (MLFN 1977, MIß- BACH 1982, KAULFUß 2011, MÜLLER 2020, BENTELE et al. 2023).

- 2023). In a bar system, both forest-stocked and wood-free areas (e.g. paths) can be integrated.

- In a bar system, both forest-covered and wood-free areas (e.g. paths) can be integrated. What should be achieved?

- What is to be achieved? Attenuation of approaching forest fires when hitting the forest fire bars and conversion of full fire into more easily combatable ground fires When full fires of the fire roller withdraw a large part of their energy - Preventing or slowing down the spread of ground fires Types of forest fire bars Type A: Stocked forest fire bars of deciduous trees (page 8) Type B: Stocked forest fire bars of common pines (page 12) Type C: Wood-free forest fire bars (page 14) What is to be considered in principle in the installation of stocked forest fire bars?

- 4/2 The following forest fires are expected to be reduced when the fire hits the forest fire bars and the conversion of full fire into more easily combatable ground fires in full fire of the fire roller withdraw a large part of their energy - Type A: Stocked forest fire bars of deciduous tree species (page 8) Type B: Stocked forest fire bars of common pine (page 12) Type C: Wood-free forest fire bars (page 14) What should be considered in the installation of stocked forest fire bars? - Use of existing forest structures in the north-south direction (broadly perpendicular to the main wind direction), in particularly forest fire-prone areas in addition to installation of bars parallel to the main wind direction, in order to prevent or make it more difficult to pass through the fire.- Use of existing forest structures with paths and lanes in the vicinity (even in the case of a strict north-south direction) 6/2 The system is aimed at making the most of the complete bar systems in order to protect the environment.

