# 3. Schutzstreifen

- Forest fire protection trails in the forest fire barrier must be suitable for rescue and fire brigade vehicles with regard to light space profile and load capacity and must be maintained . - Avoid the development of a floren or forest structure which could allow a rise of ground fire to the crown area - - Breaks and branches on 3.5 to 4.5 m wide work lanes, which are laid in parallel to the fire protection path in the protective strip, and are managed by traffic-torched - quenched forest fire bars up to the usual generation change in forest construction or until the loss of the bar structure and thus their function according to the measures mentioned here and below.The effectiveness of forest-building prevention measures results from the combination of continuous, consistent implementation of measures and correct selection of tree species! In addition to the described protective strip and bar systems, the conversion of pine forest trees into site-adapted mixed and structured, leafy forest-rich mixed forests on the entire forest area is the most effective forest fire prevention in the long term!

- In addition to the described protection strip and bar systems, the conversion of the pine forest trees into site-adapted mixed and structured, leafy mixed forests on the total forest area is the most effective forest fire prevention in the long term! 7 Fig. 4.1: Stocked forest fire bars with one path and one-sided effect thus with waiting full fires from right and Riegelwald from red oaks (from MÜLLER and JOR- DAN-FRAGSTEIN 2024 Fig. 4.2: Stocked forest fire bars with two paths and one-sided effect so with waiting full fires from right and Riegelwald from red pines (from MÜLLER and JORDAN-FRAGSTEIN 2024) Fig. 4.3: Stocked forest fire bars with one path and one-sided effect thus with waiting full fires from right and Riegelwald from red pines (from MÜLLER and JORDAN-FRAGSTEIN 2024) are used in parallel with 3 working strips with 2 working strips.

- 7 Fig. 4.1: Stable forest fire bar with one path and one-sided effect thus with waiting full fires of right and bar forest from red oak (from MÜLLER and JOR- DAN-FRAGSTEIN 2024 Fig. 4.2: Stable forest fire bar with two paths and on both sides effect thus with waiting full fires of left or right and bar forest from red oak (from MÜL- LER and JORDAN-FRAGSTEIN 2024) Fig. 4.3: Stable forest fire bar with one path and one-sided effect thus with waiting full fires of right and bar forest from common pine (from MÜLLER and JORDAN-FRAGSTEIN 2024) 1 = adjacent forest with particularly good maintenance condition on the first 30 m, supported by parallel working street, 2 = forest fire protection path with both sides ban-chains and edges, 3 = Wundstrips (2 m wide), 4 = protective strip / bar forest with 8 wide jaws (at least 1 m)

- These have a high and lasting shading effect (rapid, plastic crown development) and thus prevent or inhibit the development of easily combustible soil florets. - which can also fulfil their function on (likely) nutrient-poor, dry forest sites.

- The following types of deciduous trees are suitable or not suitable:

