# 7. Maßnahmen zu veranlassen, die

- (a) prevent fire and the spread of fire and smoke; (b) enable the rescue of humans and animals in the event of a fire, as well as effective extinguishing operations; the regulations of the Hessian building regulations remain unaffected. (2) The production, processing and storage of goods and materials with special fire risk, explosion risk or other danger and the requirement to use special extinguishing agents in the event of fires must be notified to the municipality without delay.

- (2) The production, processing and storage of goods and materials with special fire risk, explosion risk or other danger and the requirement to use special extinguishing agents in the event of fires must be notified to the municipality without delay. Furthermore, the specific characteristics of the storage material or processing material must be indicated at the entrances to the deposits or processing sites.

- In addition, the special features of the warehousing material or processing material must be indicated at the entrances to the deposits or processing sites. (3) Owners, owners, owners and other authorised use of remote building installations that do not have sufficient water supply may be obliged by the municipality to provide adequate extinguishing agents.

- (3) Owners, owners, owners and other owners of remote building facilities who do not have sufficient water supply may be obliged by the municipality to provide adequate extinguishing equipment. - 31 - § 46 Obligations of owners and owners of land (1) Owners, owners and other owners of land, construction installations, ships or aircraft are obliged to allow fire brigade and catastrophic protection personnel to access their land, buildings, facilities and deposits, ships or aircraft in the event of a danger.

- - 31 - § 46 Obligations of owners and owners of land (1) Owners, owners and owners, as well as other owners of land, buildings, ships or aircraft, are obliged, in the event of danger, to allow firefighters and catastrophic protection personnel to access their land, buildings, installations, facilities and deposits, ships or aircraft. They have to provide water supplies and extinguishing supplies which are in their possession or which can be obtained on their land for use.

- They must provide water supplies and extinguishing supplies which are in their possession or which can be obtained on their land for use; they must tolerate the measures ordered by the overall operational or technical control, in particular the clearing of the land or the disposal of buildings, parts of buildings, installations, enclosures and plants.

- They shall tolerate the measures ordered by the overall operational management or the technical operational management, in particular the clearing of the land or the disposal of buildings, parts of buildings, installations, enclosures and plants. (2) The obligations under paragraph 1 shall also be incumbent on the owners, owners and other users of the land and buildings located near the operational management.

- (2) The obligations referred to in paragraph 1 shall also lie with the owners, owners and other users of the land and buildings located near the site of operation. (3) Measures pursuant to paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not lead to damage which is clearly external to the intended success.

- (3) Measures referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not result in damage which is clearly attributable to the intended success. (4) Owners, owners and other authorized users of land, construction installations, ships or aircraft shall be obliged to tolerate the installation of alarm and warning devices and warning systems for fire protection, general assistance and disaster relief purposes without compensation.

- (4) Owners, owners and other authorised users of land, buildings, ships or aircraft are obliged to tolerate the installation of alarm and warning devices and warning devices for fire protection purposes, general assistance and disaster protection purposes without compensation. (5) Owners, owners and other authorised users of land and construction installations are obliged to tolerate the installation of technical facilities for the warning of the population and the support of communication and alerting of fire brigade and civil protection personnel even if these technical facilities are needed for the provision of public space.

- (5) Owners, owners and other authorised users of land and building facilities are obliged to tolerate the use of technical facilities to alert the public and to support the communication and alerting of fire brigade and civil protection forces, even if these technical facilities are required to supply the public space. In particular, the obligation includes the provision of the antenna site and of completed premises for system technology, the wiring of the plant as well as the supply of energy and data.

- The obligation includes, in particular, the provision of the antenna site and of completed clearances for system technology, cabling of the plant as well as the energy and data supply. The reasonable effort resulting from the tolerance must be compensated.

- § 47 Obligations of an operator of an installation with special potential for danger (1) The operator of a nuclear installation or of another installation, in which it cannot be excluded that a release of the potential for danger existing in it can cause a disaster (plant with special potential for danger), is obliged to assist the civil protection authority in the implementation of its measures for the preparation of the defence and in the prevention of disasters at its or at its expense.

- § 47 Obligations of an operator of an installation with special potential for danger (1) The operator of a nuclear installation or of another installation, where it cannot be ruled out that a release of the potential for danger in its existence can cause a disaster (plant with special potential for traffic), is obliged to assist the civil protection authority at its expense or at its expense in the implementation of its measures for the preparation of the defence and in the defence of disasters. It or it has in particular - 32 -

