# 2.6	 Fahrberechtigung zum Führen von Einsatzfahrzeugen – „Feuerwehrführerschein“

- The driving licence for members of the voluntary fire brigade is not their own driver licence, for which a theoretical test has to be completed again. It is considered as a special extension of driving licence class B for members of a voluntary fire brigade or civil protection to be allowed to drive fire vehicles.

- It is regarded as a special extension of driving licence class B for members of a volunteer fire brigade or civil protection to be allowed to drive fire vehicles. Vehicle masses z "Little fire brigade driver's license" for vehicles up to 4,750 kg The "small" driving authorisation according to § 1 para. 1 sentence 1 FBerV entitles vehicles to drive up to a maximum permissible mass of 4,750 kg, even with trailers, provided that the total permissible mass of the combination does not exceed 4,750 kg.

- Vehicle masses e.g. "Little fire brigade licence" for vehicles up to 4,750 kg The "small" driving licence according to § 1 para. 1 sentence 1 FBerV entitles vehicles up to a maximum permissible mass of 4,750 kg, also with trailers, provided that the maximum permissible mass of the combination does not exceed 4,750 kg. e. "Large fire brigade licence" for vehicles up to 7,500 kg The "large" driving licence according to § 1 para. 1 sentence 4 FBerV entitles vehicles up to a maximum permissible mass of 7,500 kg, also with trailers, provided that the total permissible mass of the combination does not exceed 7,500 kg.

- The "large" driving licence under § 1 para. 1 sentence 4 FBerV entitles vehicles up to a maximum permissible mass of 7,500 kg, including trailers, provided that the maximum permissible mass of the combination does not exceed 7,500 kg. Requirements e.g. at least 2 years in possession of the driver licence class B ("Associated driving from 17" already counts) e.g. voluntary fire brigade, rescue service, THW or other civil protection unit minimum training period e.g. "small" driving licence: 4 units of 45 minutes each z "large" driving licence: 6 units of 45 minutes each Driving licence classes B Motor vehicles with a maximum permissible mass of not more than 3,500 kg BE Class B train vehicle in combination with trailers or semitrailers with a maximum permissible mass of more than 750 kg and no more than 3,500 kg C1 motor vehicles with a maximum permissible mass of more than 3,500 kg but not more than 7,500 kg C1E Class C1 train vehicle in combination with a trailer with a total permissible mass of more than 750 kg and no more than 3,500 kg C1 motor vehicles with a maximum mass of more than 3,500 kg.

- Requirements z At least 2 years in the possession of the driver's licence class B ("Associated driving from 17" already counts) z Voluntary fire brigade, rescue service, THW or other civil protection unit Minimum training period z "Little driving licence: 4 units of 45 minutes each z "Great driving authorisation: 6 units of 45 minutes each Driving licence classes B Motor vehicles with a maximum permissible mass of not more than 3,500 kg BE Class B towing vehicle in combination with trailer or semi-trailer with a maximum permissible mass of the trailer of more than 750 kg and not more than 3,500 kg C1 Motor vehicles with a maximum permissible mass of more than 3,500 kg but not more than 7,500 kg C1E Class C1 towing vehicle in combination with trailer or semi-trailer with a maximum permissible mass of more than 750 kg and a maximum permissible mass of the combination of no more than 12.000 kg C Motor vehicles with a maximum permissible mass of more than 3,500 kg CE towing vehicle of category C in combination with trailer or semi-trailer with a maximum permissible mass of more than 750 kg.

- A detailed complete overview of the driving licence classes can be found in the driving licence regulation (FeV) § 6 Classification of driving licence classes: Classification of driving licence classes (t1p. de/hckkn) 11 Table Scope Driving licence for standard firefighters – Excerpt Scope Driving licence for standard firefighters – Excerpt Vehicle Mass Driving licence Crew FW* C1 C HLF 20 to 16.000 kg x 1/8 LF 20 to 16.000 kg x 1/8 LF 20 KatS up to 16.000 kg x 1/8 HLF 10 to 14.000 kg x 1/8 LF 10 to 14.000 kg x 1/8 kg x 1/8 MLF (mass class LII) up to 7,500 kg x x 1/5 MLF (mass class MI) up to 9,000 kg x 1/5 TSF up to 4,750 kg x 1/5 TSF-L (mass class LII) up to 7,500 kg x 1/5 TSF-L (mass class MI) up to 9,000 kg x 1/5 GW-TS up to 4,750 kg x x x min.

- The scope of validity of the licence for standard fire brigades is: x 16,000 kg x 1/8 LF 20 catS up to 16,000 kg x 1/8 HLF 10 to 14,000 kg x 1/8 LF 10 to 14,000 kg x 1/8 LF 10 to 1/8 LF 10 to 14,000 kg x 1/8 LF (mass class LII) up to 7,500 kg x x 1/5 MLF (mass class MI) up to 9,000 kg x 1/5 MLF (mass class MI) up to 9,000 kg x 1/5 TSF up to 4750 kg x 1/3 TSF-W up to 7,500 kg x 1/5 TSF-WB up to 1/5 TSF-L (mass class MI) up to 9,000 kg x 1/5 TF-TS up to 4,750 kg x 1/3 TSF-W up to 7,500 kg x x 1/5 TSF-W up to 1/5 kg

- 1/3 TSF-W up to 7,500 kg x x 1/5 TLF-WB up to 14,000 kg x 1/2 or 1/5 TLF 2000 up to 14,000 kg x 1/2 or 1/5 TLF 3000 up to 14,000 kg x 1/2 or 1/5 TLF 4000 up to 18,000 kg x 1/2 DLK 23/12 up to 16,000 kg x 1/2 DLK 18/12 up to 14,000 kg x 1/2 DLK 12/9 up to 14,000 kg x 1/2 RW up to 16,000 kg x 1/2 GW-G up to 16,000 kg x 1/2 GW-L2 up to 16,000 kg x 1/5 Supply trucks up to 16,000 kg x 1/5 Application possibilities The driving authorization is only valid within the scope of a voluntary performance of tasks e.g. for driving vehicles for use, training and training purposes z as well as for driving to ensure the use of the vehicles.

- From this it follows that no journeys may be carried out with the driving licence, e.g. those that are not related to the tasks, e.g. no private or club trips. Detailed information on the "firearms movement" as well as requirements for the instructors can also be found on the pages of the Landesfeuer-wehrverband Bayern e.

- You can also find detailed information on the "Fire Wehrfühl" and requirements for the instructors on the pages of the Landesfeuer-wehrverband Bayern e. V. (LFV Bayern).

- V. (LFV Bayern). Infos "Fire Wehrführer" (Fire Wehrführer), LFV Bayern (t1p.

- Infos „Fire Wehrführer" (Fire Wehrführer), LFV Bayern (t1p. de/zgsgi) *Fire Wehrführerschein 12

