# 1.200 kg

- HF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF - LF -L - L - LF -L - LF -L -L - L - L - L - L - L -L - L - L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L -L In the case of the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car.

- HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-F-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-H-HF-HF-HF-HF-H-H-HF-HF-H-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-HF-H-F-HF-F-F-F-F-F-F-HF-HF-F-F-F-F-F-F-F-F-F-H-H-H-H-F-F-F-F-F-F-F-F-F-F-F-F-F-F-F-F-F-F-F-H-HF-HF-H-H-F-H-H-F-F-F-HF-F-F-F-F-F-F-F-F-F-F-F-F-F-F-F- In the case of the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car, the emergency car. - 5 other management functions 9 Other function (2.3.3) Third part code The third part code is used for the serial numbering (1 to n) of vehicles to distinguish between several vehicles of the same group and type.

- 1 Head of the organisational unit, e.g.KBR/SBR, Head of the BF/Kdt 2 Deputy Head of the organisational unit, e.g.KBI/SBI 3 - 5 Other management functions 9 Other function (2.3.3) Third part code The third part code is used for the serial numbering (1 to n) of vehicles to distinguish several vehicles of the same group and type. The number "1" for the first vehicle must also be added if only one vehicle of this type is available to avoid subsequent call name changes in the case of procurement or allocation of other vehicles.

- The number ‘1' for the first vehicle shall also be added if only one vehicle of this type is in place to avoid subsequent call name changes in the procurement or allocation of other vehicles. (2.4) Handheld radios Call names for handheld radios are composed of the password, the location or area description, the sub-codes and a continuous numbering.

- (2.4) Handheld radios Call names for handheld radios are composed of the password, the location or range description, the partial identifiers and a continuous numbering. Examples: Handheld radio (HRT) of the driver of the firefighter HLF 10 Pfuhl: In analog radio (2 m wave range): Florentine Pfuhl 42/1-1 spoken: Florentine Pfuhl forty-two one In digital radio (TMO & DMO mode): Florian Pfuhl 42/1-1 spoken: Florian Pfuhl forty-two one In place of numbering, the function can be spoken in plain text (here: Florian Pfuhl forty-two one group leader).

- Examples: Hand-held radio (HRT) of the HLF 10 fire-fighting vehicle of the Pfuhl fire brigade: In analogue radio (2m wave range): Florentine Pfuhl 42/1-1 spoken: Florentine Pfuhl forty-two one In digital radio (TMO & DMO mode): Florian Pfuhl 42/1-1 spoken: Florian Pfuhl forty-two one One In place of the numbering, the function can be spoken in plain language (here: Florian Pfuhl forty-two one group leader). 57 Hose car SW 1000 58 Hose car SW 2000 59 Appliance trolley other GW-HÖRG, equipment car animal rescue GW-Tier, equipment car animal transport GW-Tiertransport, equipment car environment GW-U 42 z Fire-fighter vehicle concept of the DIN-FNFW t1p.

- 57 Hose Wagon SW 1000 58 Hose Wagon SW 2000 59 Appliance Wagon other GW, Appliance Wagon high-altitude rescue GW-HÖRG, Appliance Wagon animal rescue GW-Tier, Appliance Wagon animal transport GW-Tiertransport, Appliance Wagon environment GW-U 42 z Firefighter vehicle concept of DIN-FNFW t1p. de/o4wn z Standards portal fire services t1p.

- de/o4wn z Standards portal Fire brigade t1p. de/6vif z Minimum equipment for standard fire brigade vehicles in Bavaria, Staatliche Feuerwehrschule Regensburg t1p.

- de/6vif z Minimum equipment for standard fire brigade vehicles in Bavaria, Staatliche Feuerwehrschule Regensburg t1p. de/41wp z Equipment of fire brigades in Bavaria (StMI), "Technische Baubeschreibungen" t1p.

- de/41wp z Equipment of fire brigades in Bavaria (StMI), "Technical building descriptions" t1p. de/x7xti z Fire brigade application guidelines (FwZR) t1p.

- de/x7xti z Fire Brigade Application Guidelines (FwZR) t1p. de/cg4n z Radio call names and operational-tactic addresses (OPTA) of the non-police authorities and organizations with security tasks (npol.

- de/cg4n z Directive for radio call names and operational-tactic addresses (OPTA) of the non-police authorities and organizations with security tasks (npol. BOS) in Bavaria t1p.

- BOS) in Bavaria t1p. de/9kfcp ANNEX 2 LINK AND MEDIA COLLECTIONS Want to learn more about the work of the Bavarian State Government?

- en/9kfcp ANNEX 2 LINK- und MEDIENSAMMLUNG Do you want to learn more about the work of the Bavarian State Government? BAYERN 的 DIRECT is your direct link to the Bavarian State Government.

- BAYERN 的 DIRECT is your direct line to the Bavarian State Government. Call 089 12 22 20 or send an e-mail to direct@bayern.

- Call 089 12 22 20 or send an e-mail to direct@bayern. en You will receive information material and brochures, information on current topics and internet sources as well as information on authorities, competent authorities and contact persons at the Bavarian State Government.

- You will receive information material and brochures, information on current topics and internet sources as well as information on authorities, competent authorities and contact persons at the Bavarian State Government. Note: This publication is published as part of the public relations work of the Bavarian State Government.

- Note: This document is published in the context of the public relations work of the Bavarian State Government. It may not be used by parties or by campaigners or electoral workers for the purpose of election advertising within the period of five months prior to an election.

- It may not be used for election advertising by parties or by campaigners or electoral helpers for the period of five months prior to an election. This applies to state, Bundestag, municipal and European elections.

- This applies to state, Bundestag, municipal and European elections. During this time, the distribution to election events, to information stands of the parties as well as the insertion, printing and affixing of party-political information or advertising material is abusive.

- During this time, the distribution to election events, to information stands of the parties as well as the insertion, printing and affixing of party political information or advertising material is abusive. The disclosure to third parties for the purpose of election advertising is also prohibited.

- The disclosure to third parties for the purpose of election advertising is also prohibited. Even without a temporal reference to an upcoming election, the document cannot be used in a way that could be understood as a party to the state government for the benefit of individual political groups.

- Even without a temporal reference to an upcoming election, the document may not be used in a way that could be understood as a party to the state government for the benefit of individual political groups. The parties are allowed to use the document to inform their own members.

- The parties are allowed to use the printed material to inform their own members. IMPRESSUM Publisher: "Staatliche Feuerwehrschule Würzburg, Weißenburgstr.

- IMPRESSUM Publisher:

- 60, 97082 Würzburg Participation: Bavarian State Ministry of the Interior, for Sports and Integration, Bavarian State Fire Schools, Bavarian State Fire Brigade Association e.V. Design: Würzburg State Fire School, Teaching and Learning Center Internet:

