# 4.2 Rechtsgrundlage für die Aufstellung zur Pflichtfeuerwehr

- The nine mandatory fire brigades were set up on the basis of the respective country-specific regulations for the fire brigade, which state in substance that a municipality has to hold a "powerful fire brigade corresponding to the local authorities". All relevant laws allow the municipalities the possibility to oblige residents if there are too few volunteers.

- All the laws in question allow the municipalities the possibility of requiring residents if there are too few volunteers. However, the laws do not specify exactly how this presupposition has to look and when there are too few volunteers.

- However, the laws do not specify exactly how this provision should look and when there are too few forces. Table 2 gives an overview of the legal bases in the version valid for the establishment of the PF and the corresponding paragraphs.

- Table 2 gives an overview of the legal bases in the version valid for the establishment of the PF and the corresponding paragraphs. Table 2: valid legal basis at the time of the establishment of the compulsory fire brigades (own presentation, 2024) country legal basis valid version of current version of § for compulsory fire brigade PF or FF?

- Table 2: valid legal basis at the time of the foundation of the compulsory fire brigades (own presentation, 2024) Country Legal basis Valid version of current version of § for compulsory fire brigade PF or FF? Duration of the obligation Hessen HBKG 2013 2013 § 7 (5) i.

- Duration of the obligation Hessen HBKG 2013 2013 § 7 (5) i. V. m § 10 (4) HBKG integrated 10 years Mecklenburg-Vorpommern BrSchG 2002 2015 § 13 BrSchG PF or FF / Rhineland-Palatinate LBKG 2008 2020 § 12(2) LBKG integrated 10 years Sachsen-Anhalt BrSchG 2001 2017 § 11 BrSchG PF or FF / Schleswig-Holstein BrSchG 1996 2022 § 16 BrSchG PF or FF 6-12 years 2008 2022 § 16 BrSchG PF or FF 6-12 years 2015 2022 § 16 BrSchG PF or FF 12 years 2022 2022 § 16 BrSchG integrated 12 years Although the goal of increasing the number of operational forces through commitment is the same in all laws, there are different conditions depending on the country, which can be distinguished in particular in the type of compulsory fire brigade itself.

- V. m § 10 (4) HBKG integrates 10 years of Mecklenburg-Vorpommern BrSchG 2002 2015 § 13 BrSchG PF or FF / Rhineland-Palatinate LBKG 2008 2020 § 12(2) LBKG integrates 10 years of Saxony-Anhalt BrSchG 2001 2017 § 11 BrSchG PF or FF / Schleswig-Holstein BrSchG 1996 2022 § 16 BrSchG PF or FF 6-12 years of 2008 2022 § 16 BrSchG PF or FF 6-12 years of 2015 2022 § 16 BrSchG PF or FF 12 years of 2022 2022 § 16 BrSchG integrates 12 years Although the goal of increasing the number of operational personnel by means of commitment is the same in all laws, depending on the country, there are different framework conditions that can be distinguished in particular in the type of compulsory fire brigade itself. While in Hesse and Rhineland-Palatinate there is no provision for a compulsory fire brigade if there are sufficient staff to serve as volunteers.

- While in Hesse and Rhineland-Palatinate the Heranzie-hung is spoken of as a voluntary service, it is said in Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, Saxony-Anhalt and Schleswig-Holstein (until 2022) that a compulsory fire brigade is to be set up, if not enough forces are available. The difference is that in the case of recourse to the honorary official service, the obliged ones are incorporated into the existing structures of the volunteer fire brigade, while in the case of an establishment of the compulsory fire brigade the voluntary fire brigade, including all components such as the youth fire brigade etc., is replaced by a compulsory fire brigade.

- The difference lies in the fact that in the case of recourse to the honorary official service, the obliged persons are incorporated into the existing structures of the volunteer fire brigade, while in the case of the establishment of the compulsory fire brigade, the voluntary fire brigade, including all components such as the youth fire brigade etc., is replaced by a compulsory fire brigade. The minimum age for such recourse is at least 18 years in all countries and the upper limit, depending on the country, is between 50 and 60 years.

- The minimum age for use in all countries is at least 18 years and the upper limit, depending on the country, is between 50 and 60 years. The residents in the different countries may be obliged to serve fire services for different periods of time.

- The residents in the different countries may be obliged to serve fire services for different periods of time. In Schleswig-Holstein, four mandatory fire brigades existed within the last 20 years, two of them still exist.

- There have been four mandatory fire brigades in Schleswig-Holstein over the last 20 years, two of which are still in existence. Based on some experience from compulsory fire brigades, a legislative amendment was introduced in Schleswig-Holstein in 2022.

- Due to some experience from the mandatory fire brigades, a change of law could be made in Schleswig-Holstein in 2022. One of the most important changes was the integration of the obliged into the structures of the volunteer fire brigade, so that departments such as the youth fire brigade could remain.

- One of the most important changes was the integration of the obliged into the structures of the volunteer fire brigade, so that departments such as the youth fire brigade could remain. Changes were also made in the age structure.

- Changes have also been made in the age structure. Thus, although only persons between the ages of 18 and 50 may be obliged by the municipality, citizens between the ages of 18 and 60 can apply for an obligation to volunteer.

- Although only persons between the ages of 18 and 50 may be required by the municipality, citizens between the ages of 18 and 60 may apply for voluntary work.

- A claim to the obligation does not exist, but after acceptance of the application they could be "voluntarily obliged" until the age of 67.

- Since 2022, members of other FF can also be accepted to strengthen the availability of the day.

- In order to strengthen the daily availability, members of other FF can also be included since 2022. Table 3: Ordinance on the establishment of fire brigades (own representation, 2024) Land Ordinance Old version (valid at the time of the foundation PF) Hessen Ordinance on the organisation, minimum strength and equipment of the public fire brigades (FwOV M-V) Administrative regulation on the minimum strength, the structure and minimum equipment of public fire brigades and factory fire brigades (fire brigade minimum strength regulations) Rhineland-Palatinate Ordinance on fire brigades (FwVO) / Saxony-Anhalt Ordinance on the minimum strength and equipment of the freewill fire brigades (MindAusrVO-FF) / Schleswig-Holstein Organization and equipment of the voluntary fire brigades, compulsory fire brigades and factory fire brigades as well as the careers and the formation of their members (organizational fire brigades and fire brigades) are clearly described in the statement of the fire brigade and the fire brigade's.

- Table 3: Regulation on the establishment of fire brigades (own presentation, 2024) Land Ordinance Old version (valid at the time of the establishment of PF) Hessen Ordinance on the organisation, minimum strength and equipment of the public fire brigades (fire brigade organisation regulation - FwOV M-V) / Mecklenburg-Vorpommern Ordinance on the determination of requirements and organisation of fire brigades in Mecklenburg-Vorpommern (fire brigade organisation regulation - FwOV M-V) Administrative regulation on the minimum strength, the structure and minimum equipment of public fire brigades and factory fire brigades (fire brigade minimum strength regulation) Rhineland-Palatinate Ordinance on fire brigades (FwVO) / Saxony-Anhalt Ordinance on the minimum strength and equipment of the Freiwilligen Fire Brigades (MindAusrVO-FF) / Schleswig-Holstein Organization and equipment of the voluntary fire brigades, compulsory fire brigades and factory fire brigades as well as the careers and training of their members (organizational release fire brigades - OrgFw) As a statement and equipment of the voluntary fire brigades and the requirements are clearly described in the regulations of the fire brigade and the regulations of the fire brigade and the provisions of the regulations and the regulations of fire brigade are described in the provisions.

- In the countries where there was a compulsory fire brigade, in addition to the regulations, the regulations set out in Table 3 from which the requirements for fire brigades have to be derived apply. By these regulations the municipalities have no discretion: if the number of forces falls under the regulations, a compulsory fire brigade must be established.

