# 15.

- a representative of the Saarländische Krankenhausgesellschaft e. V. - page 9 of 41 - The members referred to in points 7 to 15 shall appoint the Ministry of Home Affairs, Building and Sport, on a proposal from the competent authorities, for a period of five years.

- V. - Page 9 of 41 - The members referred to in points 7 to 15 shall appoint the Ministry of Home Affairs, Building and Sport on a proposal from the competent authorities for a period of five years.

- 3. The members of the State Advisory Council shall perform their duties voluntarily. Members whose membership of the bodies, institutions and associations they represent shall cease prematurely.

- Members whose membership of the bodies, institutions and associations represented by them ends prematurely shall be expelled. A new member shall be appointed for the remainder of the period.

- A new member will be appointed for the remainder of the term. (4) The Minister for Home Affairs, Building and Sport or the Minister for Home Affairs, Building and Sport will chair the State Advisory Council.

- 4. The State Advisory Council shall be chaired by the Minister for Home Affairs, Building and Sport or by the Minister for Home Affairs, Building and Sport. It shall adopt a Rules of Procedure and shall maintain the ongoing activities of the State Advisory Council.

- Section 2 The fire brigades § 7 Tasks of fire brigades (1) The fire brigades have to save people and prevent damage to people, animals, goods and the environment.

- Section 2 The fire brigades § 7 Tasks of fire brigades (1) The fire brigades have to save people and avert damage to people, animals, goods and the environment. They perform tasks in fire protection education, fire protection declaration and preventive fire protection.

- They carry out tasks in the field of fire protection education, fire protection and preventive fire protection. The municipal fire brigades are involved in catastrophic protection.

- The municipal fire brigades are involved in the protection of the catastrophes. (2) The fire brigades can also provide assistance outside of security within the scope of their possibilities.

- 2. Fire brigades may also provide assistance outside security within the limits of their capabilities. 3. Fire brigades may take part in the emergency service and in the field of organized first aid.

- § 8 Types of fire brigades (1) Fire brigades within the meaning of this law are the municipal fire brigades (voluntary fire brigades, professional fire brigades, compulsory fire brigades) and as self-protection facilities of enterprises and the factory fire brigades.

- § 8 Types of fire brigades (1) Fire brigades within the meaning of this law are the municipal fire brigades (voluntary fire brigades, professional fire brigades, compulsory fire brigades) and as self-protection facilities of enterprises and installations the factory fire brigades. (2) The municipal fire brigades are non-profit, public institutions of the municipalities serving as help for the community without their own legal personality.

- (2) The municipal fire brigades are non-profit-making public bodies of the municipalities which serve to assist the community without their own legal personality. (3) The factory fire brigades are state-recognised or ordered self-protection facilities of enterprises and institutions.

- (3) The factory fire brigades are state-recognised or ordered self-protection facilities of plants and facilities. (4) The establishment of a factory fire brigade is solely in the decision of the plant.

- (4) The establishment of a fire brigade is solely the decision of the company. The establishment of a fire brigade has no effect on the municipal fire brigade and does not trigger any supervisory rights.

- The establishment of a fire brigade has no effect on the municipal fire brigade and does not trigger any supervisory rights. § 9 Fire brigade associations In the case of fundamental questions of fire protection and technical assistance, the task leaders should listen to the fire brigade association formed for their area.

- § 9 Fire brigade associations The task leaders are to listen to the fire brigade association formed for their area in the case of fundamental technical questions of fire protection and technical assistance.The Landesfeuerwehrverband, the Kreisfeuerwehrverband and the fire brigade association for the regional association Saarbrücken - page 10 of 41 - are to be supported and supported by the respective fire brigade and technical assistance authorities.

- The Landesfeuerwehrverband, the Kreisfeuerwehrverband and the fire brigade association for the regional association Saarbrücken - page 10 of 41 - are to be promoted by the respective responsible party of fire protection and technical assistance and supported financially. § 10 Fire protection set-up and service operation of the municipal fire brigades must be regulated in a fire protection set-up.

- § 10 Fire protection set-up and operation of the municipal fire brigades are to be regulated in a fire protection set-up. The Ministry of Interior, Building and Sports issues a model set-up [1]; deviations from this model set-up require its approval.

- The Ministry of Home Affairs, Building and Sport shall issue a model set [1]; derogations from this model set shall be subject to its approval. Footnotes [1]) See model set of 29 January 2008 (Amtsbl.

- Footnotes [1]) See model sentence of 29 January 2008 (Official Journal p. 364).

- 364). § 11 Voluntary fire brigade (1) The municipalities form Voluntary fire brigades.

- § 11 Voluntary fire brigades (1) The municipalities form voluntary fire brigades. (2) The municipalities can divide their territory into extinguishing sections and extinguishing districts, which they determine in the fire protection regulations.

- 2. Municipalities may divide their territory into extinguishing sections and extinguishing districts which they determine in the fire protection regulations. The modification of existing extinguishing sections and extinguishing districts shall be permitted after consultation of the competent fire inspector or fire inspector if fire protection and technical assistance are sufficiently guaranteed.

- The modification of existing extinguishing sections and extinguishing districts shall be permitted after consultation of the competent fire inspector or fire inspector if fire protection and technical assistance are adequately guaranteed. It shall be notified to the Ministry of Interior, Building and Sport.

- It must be notified to the Ministry of Home Affairs, Building and Sport. (3) The active members of the volunteer fire brigades must be 16.

- 3. The active members of the volunteer fire brigades must be at least 16 years of age.

- The active fire service ends with the achievement of the statutory retirement age according to § 35 of the Sixth Book of the Social Code – Statutory Pension Insurance – in the version of the agreement of 19 February 2002 (BGBl.

- The active fire service ends with the achievement of the statutory retirement age in accordance with Section 35 of the Sixth Book of the Social Code – Statutory Pension Insurance – as amended by the Convention of 19 February 2002 (BGBl. I p. 754, 1404, 3384), as last amended by Law of 22 November 2021 (BGBl.

- I, p. 754, 1404, 3384), as last amended by Law of 22 November 2021 (BGBl I, p. 4906).

- 4906). At the request of one or more members of the volunteer fire brigade, the active fire service ends from the completed 60th day.

- At the request of one or more members of the volunteer fire department, the active fire service ends from the age of 60.

- (4) Youth fire brigades can be formed in the volunteer fire brigades.

- (4) Youth fire brigades can be set up in the voluntary fire brigades. Members of the youth fire brigade must have reached the age of eight.

- Members of the Ju- gendfeuerwehr must have reached the age of eight. Youth fire brigades have in particular the task of recruiting young people for the idea of volunteering in the local community and of training the young volunteers fire brigades.

- Youth fire brigades have in particular the task of recruiting young people for the idea of volunteering in the local community and of training the young volunteers fire brigades. Within the youth fire brigades youth group spokespersons or youth group spokespersons are elected at all levels.

- Within the youth fire brigades, youth group speakers are elected at all levels. Members of the youth fire brigade are only allowed to participate in the exercises and training sessions that are scheduled for them.

- Members of the youth fire brigade may only participate in the exercises and training sessions that they plan for, and may not be used for service.

- They may not be used for emergency service. With the agreement of the fire brigade carrier, preparatory groups for the youth fire brigades can be set up, in which children from the age of six can be members until the age of ten.

- With the agreement of the fire brigade's sponsor, preparatory groups for youth fire brigades can be set up in which children from the age of six can be members up to the age of ten. (5) Old age departments can be set up in the voluntary fire brigades.

- (5) Old age departments may be set up in the voluntary fire brigades. A member of the age division may be the person who has left the service because of reaching the age limits referred to in the second and third sentences of paragraph 3 or for health reasons.

- Members of the age group may be those who have left the service on account of reaching the age limits referred to in the second and third sentences of paragraph 3 or for health reasons. 6. Members of the voluntary fire brigades shall perform their duties on a voluntary basis, subject to the provisions of paragraph 7; they shall carry out their duties on behalf of the community of which they are members.

- (6) The members of the volunteer fire brigades shall perform their duties on a voluntary basis, subject to the provisions of paragraph 7; they shall carry out their duties on behalf of the community of which they are members. Wehrführer und Wehrführerinnen, die Löschabteilungsführerinnen und - Page 11 of 41 - Löschabteilungsführerinnen, die Löschabteilungsführerinnen und deren Stellvertreter und Deputierinnen are to be appointed honorary officers or honorary women.

- Wehrführer und Wehrführerinnen, die Löschabteilungsführer and - Page 11 of 41 - Löschabteilungsführerinnen, die Löschbezirksführerinnen and their assistants and alternates are to be appointed honorary officers or honorary women. (7) The municipalities with more than 30,000 inhabitants and female residents who do not have a professional fire brigade must, if necessary, establish fire guards with full-time professionals who are able to take the first measures to combat fire and technical assistance.

- (7) The municipalities with more than 30,000 inhabitants, which do not have a professional fire brigade, must, if necessary, set up fire guards with full-time personnel capable of taking the first measures to combat fire and technical assistance. (8) The rights and obligations of the members of the volunteer fire brigades must be regulated in the fire safety regulations in accordance with the requirements of the regulations (Article 10, second sentence).

- (8) The rights and obligations of the members of the voluntary fire brigades must be regulated in the fire safety regulations in accordance with the requirements of the rule of law (Section 10 sentence 2). (9) Firefighters who perform leadership functions should not simultaneously carry out leadership functions in other organizations, other facilities or other services in the field of fire fighting which can be used in addition to the fire brigade.

- (9) Firefighters who perform leadership functions should not simultaneously carry out leadership functions in other organizations, other facilities or other services in the field of anti-aircraft, which can be used alongside the fire brigade. § 12 Compulsory fire brigade (1) If a volunteer fire brigade cannot be formed or not in sufficient strength, the municipality has to set up a compulsory fire brigade.

- § 12 Compulsory fire brigade (1) If a voluntary fire brigade cannot be formed or cannot be formed in sufficient strength, the municipality has to set up a compulsory fire brigade. If only a voluntary fire brigade cannot be formed in a extinguishing district or cannot be formed in sufficient strength, a compulsory fire brigade must be set up, as long as the remaining fire brigade fire department's extinguishing districts cannot guarantee fire protection and technical assistance for this area.

- If only a voluntary fire brigade cannot be formed in a extinguishing district, or if it cannot be formed in sufficient strength, a mandatory fire brigade must be set up, as long as and as long as the remaining fire brigade fire brigade districts cannot guarantee fire protection and technical assistance for this area.

