# 4.

- The implementation of civil protection exercises, through which the operational plans for certain major damage situations or disasters as well as the cooperation of the units and facilities involved in civil protection are tested and the readiness to take action is checked. With regard to existing employment and service relations of the helpers, exercises must be placed as far as possible in the work-free time.

- With regard to the existing employment and service relations of the helpers and helpers, exercises should be put into the work-free time as possible. - Page 17 of 41 - (2) An administrative staff must be formed at the highest civil protection authority.

- - page 17 of 41 - (2) The Supreme Civil Protection Authority must form an administrative staff. In the event of major damage or disasters, all authorities and administrative staff departments involved in non-police security shall cooperate in a variety of areas.

- In the event of major damage or disasters, all the authorities and administrative staff involved in non-police security work together in a departmental and interdisciplinary manner. (3) The Supreme Civil Protection Authority may introduce a uniform management system by means of administrative regulation.

- (3) The Supreme Civil Protection Authority may, by administrative regulation, introduce a uniform management system. (4) The municipalities and local associations, the local associations of purpose, the departments of the country and the other bodies, institutions and foundations of public law which are subject to the supervision of the country are obliged, upon request, to assist the civil protection authorities in the preparation of the defence and the defence against major damage situations and disasters, unless priority is given to the performance of urgent tasks of their own.

- (4) The municipalities and associations of municipalities, the local associations for the purpose, the departments of the country and the other bodies, institutions and foundations of public law which are subject to the supervision of the country are obliged, upon request, to assist the civil protection authorities in the preparation of the defense and the defense of major damage situations and disasters, unless priority is given to the performance of urgent tasks of their own. (5) The operations for the defense of major damage situations and disasters must be re-prepared.

- 5. Operations for the prevention of major damage and disasters shall be re-prepared. Following post-operation in the civil protection authority's own field, exchange of experience between all the authorities involved and other bodies shall be provided for.

- After the post-operational preparation in the own area of the civil protection authority, an exchange of experience between all the authorities involved and other bodies is to be provided. § 21 Management of exceptional situations, major damage situations and disasters (1) The civil protection authority must take the measures necessary for the management of the major damage situation or the disaster at its discretion.

- § 21 Management of exceptional situations, major damage situations and disasters (1) The Civil Protection Authority shall take the measures necessary for the management of the major damage situation or the disaster at its discretion. (2) The lower Civil Protection Authority shall determine the occurrence and end of the disaster, insofar as only its area is affected by the disaster.

- (2) The lower civil protection authority shall determine the occurrence and end of the disaster, insofar as only its area is affected by the disaster. Furthermore, this finding shall be made by the supreme civil protection authority.

- In addition, this finding is made by the Supreme Anti-Castrophic Protection Authority, which is to be made public without delay.

- (3) The competent authority shall, in agreement with the competent civil protection authority, determine the entry into and the end of an exceptional situation.

- 3. The competent authority shall determine, in agreement with the competent civil protection authority, the entry into and the end of an exceptional situation. 4. If it is assumed that a major damage or disaster is or is imminent, the units and facilities of civil protection shall be obliged to provide assistance and to make all preparations for their further deployment, even without being required.

- (4) If it is assumed that a major damage situation or a disaster is or is imminent, the units and facilities of civil protection shall be obliged to provide assistance and to make all preparations for their further deployment without request. They shall immediately assure themselves of the agreement or the mandate of the relevant civil protection authority.

- They shall immediately assure themselves of the agreement or the mandate of the relevant civil protection authority. § 22 Neighbourhood assistance, deployment in exceptional situations, foreign intervention, deployment abroad, mutual assistance (1) On request, the civil protection authorities shall provide mutual assistance and arrange the deployment of the units and facilities involved in their field of civil protection.

- § 22 Neighbourhood assistance, deployment in exceptional situations, foreign intervention, deployment abroad, mutual assistance (1) On request, the civil protection authorities have to provide mutual assistance and arrange the deployment of the units and facilities involved in their field of civil protection.The units and facilities used are then under the responsibility of the requesting Katastrophenschutz authority.

- (2) The specialised authority responsible for an exceptional deployment situation may, in agreement with the relevant civil protection authority, request and arrange for the deployment of the necessary personnel and material support of the organisations recognised in accordance with § 19 paragraphs 3 and 4 as well as the units and facilities of civil protection in accordance with § 18.

- (2) The competent authority responsible for exceptional situations of operation may, in agreement with the competent civil protection authority, request the necessary personnel and material support of the organisations recognised in accordance with § 19 (3) and (4), as well as the units and facilities of civil protection pursuant to § 18, and order their deployment.

- The competent authorities can be assisted by the competent - page 18 of 41 - civil protection authority.

- The competent authority can be assisted by the competent - page 18 of 41 - Civil Protection Authority. The existing management structures of the Katastrophenschutz authorities remain unaffected.

- The existing management structures of the Katastrophenschutz authorities remain unaffected. (3) The Supreme Civil Protection Authority may order the use of civil protection units and facilities outside the area of a lower civil protection authority.

- 3. The Supreme Civil Protection Authority may order the use of civil protection units and facilities outside the area of a lower civil protection authority, and it shall at the same time determine to whom the units and facilities are subject.

- It also determines to whom the units and institutions are subordinated. The same rule applies if a request for assistance from another federal state or abroad is addressed to the state government.

- The same procedure applies if a request for assistance from another Land or abroad is addressed to the State Government. (4) All authorities and departments which have their own responsibilities in the field of civil protection authorities are obliged to provide the assistance requested by the Civil Protection Authority immediately during the duration of an intervention led by the Civil Protection Authority.

- 4. All authorities and services which have their own responsibilities in the field of civil protection authorities shall be obliged, during the duration of an operation led by the civil protection authority, to provide immediately the assistance requested by the civil protection authority; they shall, in particular, make available, at the request of the civil protection authority, appropriate staff, vehicles, equipment and equipment.

- They shall, at the request of the Civil Protection Authority, in particular, provide appropriate staff, vehicles, equipment and equipment. (5) In the fight against major damage and disasters, the enforcement police shall continue to carry out the tasks entrusted to it in the field of security and law enforcement under their own responsibility.

- 5. In the case of the prevention of major damage and disasters, the enforcement police shall continue to carry out the tasks entrusted to it in the field of security and law enforcement under their own responsibility and shall carry out tasks instead of the original competent authorities only until such time as these authorities themselves are able to do so.

- It shall carry out tasks instead of the original competent authorities only until these authorities themselves are able to do so. The civil protection authorities shall cooperate closely with the enforcement authorities at all stages of the preparation of the defence, the defence and the follow-up of major disasters.

- The civil protection authorities cooperate closely with the enforcement authorities in all phases of the preparation of the defense, the defense and the post-preparation of major disasters. Section 4 Helpers in civil protection § 23 General (1) The provisions of this section apply to helpers in private units and institutions of civil protection.

- Section 4 Helpers in Civil Protection § 23 General (1) The provisions of this section apply to helpers in private units and civil protection facilities. They apply to helpers in public entities and institutions if their legal relationships are not regulated in other national or federal regulations.

- They shall apply to helpers and helpers of public entities and institutions if their legal relationships are not regulated by other national or federal regulations. For helpers in government units, the provisions of this section shall be applied accordingly.

- The provisions of this section shall be applied in accordance with the provisions of this Section for assistants in directorial units. (2) The right of the organisations to their assistants remains unaffected.

- (2) The right of the organizations to their helpers remains unaffected. (3) Helpers are persons who are voluntarily and voluntarily active in units and institutions of civil protection.

- (3) Helpers are persons who voluntarily and voluntarily work in units and institutions of civil protection. § 24 Service in civil protection (1) The Helper may commit herself to the Organization for a certain or undecided period of time in civil protection.

- § 24 Service in Civil Protection (1) The helper or the helper may commit herself to the service in Civil Protection for a certain or undecided time to the organization. In the case of government units, the local civil protection authority takes the place of the organization.

- In the case of government units, the local civil protection authority takes the place of the organisation. The employer must be informed of the obligation of the helper or of the helper; he may require proof.

- This obligation shall be communicated to the worker by the helper, who may require proof. (2) The Civil Protection Service shall include, in particular, participation in missions, exercises, courses and other training courses.

- (2) The Civil Protection Service includes in particular participation in missions, exercises, courses and other training events. (3) The accident insurance of the helpers is governed by the statutory regulations.

- (3) The accident insurance of the helpers is governed by the statutory provisions. - Page 19 of 41 - (4) Unless otherwise provided by law, the rights and obligations of the helper are only with respect to the organisation to which he or she belongs; in the case of government units, the relevant civil protection authority replaces the organisation.

- - page 19 of 41 - (4) Unless otherwise provided by law, the rights and obligations of the helper or the helper only exist with regard to the organisation to which he or she belongs; in the case of government units, the relevant civil protection authority replaces the organisation. Section 5 Legal relations of the active volunteer members of the Freiwiligen fire brigades as well as of the helpers in civil protection § 25 Exemption, continued payment of wages, loss of earnings (1) Employees and trainees may not result from their obligation to serve in the fire brigade or in civil protection any disadvantages in the employment relationship as well as in the social security system.

- Section 5 Legal relations of the active voluntary members of the Freiwil- igen fire brigades as well as of the helpers in civil protection § 25 Exemption, continued payment of wages, loss of earnings (1) Employees and trainees may not suffer from their obligation to serve in the fire brigade or in civil protection any disadvantages in the employment relationship as well as in social security. If, during working hours, they take part in operations, training events or other events at the request of the municipality or the civil protection authority, they shall be exempted from work for the duration of their participation, even for the necessary period thereafter, under the condition that they continue to receive the remuneration which they would have received without their participation.

- If they take part in missions, training events or other events during working hours at the request of the municipality or the civil protection authority, they shall be exempt from work for the duration of their participation, even for the necessary period thereafter, subject to the continuation of the remuneration which they would have received without participation. If the duty to serve permits, they shall inform their employer in good time of their absence.

- They have to inform their employer of their absence in due time if the duty to serve permits. (1a) Full-year-old pupils and students are exempt from participation in classes and training courses during the participation in assignments and for a reasonable period thereafter.

- (1a) Full-year pupils and students are exempt from participation in the training and training courses during the participation in missions and for a reasonable period thereafter. (2) By way of derogation from the second sentence of paragraph 1, employees who perform tasks of the direct defence of danger, in particular full-time professional and factory firefighters as well as in the police enforcement, control centre or rescue service, shall be entitled to exemption only for training events and other service events.

- 2. By way of derogation from the second sentence of paragraph 1, employees carrying out the tasks of the direct defence, in particular professional and factory firefighters, and in the police enforcement, control centre or rescue service, shall be entitled to exemption only for training events and other service events. 3. Private employers shall, upon request, reimburse the person responsible for the continued remuneration, including their total social insurance contributions, and contributions to occupational pensions.

- (3) Private employers must, at their request, reimburse the person responsible for the continued remuneration, including their total social security contributions and contributions to an occupational pension scheme, and they must also reimburse the remuneration which they continue to pay under the statutory provisions during incapacity for work if the invalidity is due to the service provided under this law.

- They must also be reimbursed for the remuneration which they continue to pay on the basis of the statutory provisions during incapacity for work if the incapacity for work is due to the service provided under this law. A claim for reimbursement exists only insofar as the private employer is not entitled to a claim for reimbursement under other statutory provisions.

- A refund entitlement exists only to the extent that the private employer is not entitled to a claim under other statutory provisions. (4) For civil servants, with the exception of federal officials and Federal officials, as well as judges, paragraphs 1 and 2 shall apply mutatis mutandis.

- (4) Paragraphs 1 and 2 shall apply mutatis mutandis to civil servants, with the exception of federal officials and Federal officials, as well as to judges and judges. (5) Volunteers who receive benefits from the Federal Agency for Labour, Unemployment Benefit II, Social Assistance or any other support or remuneration from public funds shall, upon application, reimburse the full amount of these benefits if they are omitted due to service in the fire brigade or in civil protection.

- 5. Volunteers who receive benefits from the Federal Agency for Labour, Unemployment Benefit II, Social Assistance or other support or remuneration from public funds shall, upon application, reimburse them in full if they are omitted due to the service in the fire brigade or in civil protection. (6) Other volunteers shall be replaced at the request of the proven loss of earnings.

- (6) Other volunteers must be replaced at the request of the proven loss of earnings. This also applies during an incapacity for work due to the service in the fire brigade or in the Katastrophenschutz, up to a period of six weeks.

- This also applies during incapacity for work, which is due to the service in the fire brigade or in the Katastrophenschutz, up to a period of six weeks. (7) The necessary expenses and material damage incurred by the volunteer firefighters as well as the helpers in civil protection when performing their service without intent or gross negligence shall be replaced by the body whose fire brigade - page 20 out of 41 - they belong to or by the body whose civil protection authority has granted special recognition to the unit or establishment or to which the helper has committed herself to participation in civil protection.

- (7) Any necessary expenses and material damage which arise from the performance of their service without intent or gross negligence on the part of the volunteer firefighters and the helpers in civil protection shall be replaced by the body whose firefighters - page 20 of 41 - belong to them or by the body whose civil protection authority has granted special recognition to the unit or establishment or to which the helper has committed herself to participation in civil protection. Where compensation for material damage is provided, claims for damages by the firefighter or the helper in civil protection against third parties shall be transferred to the body which is obliged to replace them.

- Insofar as compensation for damage to property is provided, claims for damages by the firefighter or the helper in the field of disaster protection against third parties are transferred to the body obliged to replace them. (8) Volunteer firefighter technical agents and advisors of the supervisory authorities and volunteer firefighters, who are constantly used for special services, are entitled to adequate compensation by the responsible officer.

- (8) Volunteer firefighters and advisors of the supervisory authorities and volunteer firefighters, who are constantly used for special services, are entitled to adequate compensation by the responsible person. (9) The legal relations between the public-law aid organizations of the federal or other countries and their helpers remain unaffected.

- (9) The legal relationships between the public-law aid organizations of the federal or other countries and their helpers and helpers remain unaffected. § 26 Liability for damages (1) The liability of the volunteer for damages caused by him or her in the performance of the service to goods owned by public authorities is limited to intent and gross negligence.

- § 26 Liability for damages (1) The liability of the volunteer or volunteer for damages caused by him or her in the performance of the service to goods owned by institutions of the public administration is limited to intent and gross negligence. (2) Liability for damages caused by the volunteer or volunteer in the performance of the service to third parties is determined in accordance with Article 34 of the Basic Law in conjunction with § 839 of the Civil Code.

- (2) In accordance with Article 34 of the Basic Law, liability for damage caused to third parties by the volunteer or voluntary worker in the performance of the service is determined in conjunction with § 839 of the Civil Code. (3) In the case of an obligation against a public institution of the civil protection body, and in the case of helpers in civil protection, the civil protection authority of which has established the special recognition of the entity or body.

- (3) In the event of an obligation to a public institution of that body, and in the case of helpers in civil protection within the meaning of Article 34 of the Basic Law, the liable body shall be the body whose civil protection authority has established the special recognition of the entity or body. In the case of recourse, Section 93 of the Saarländisches Verwaltungsgesetz, as amended by the notice dated 27 December 1996 (Official Journal of the German Republic) shall apply.

- In the case of recourse, Section 93 of the Saarländische Beschäftsverwaltungsgesetz, as amended by the notice dated 27 December 1996 (Official Journal 1997 p. 301), as last amended by Article 1(2) of the Law of 15 February 2006 (Official Journal 2006 (Official Journal 2006; English Special Edition 2006; English Special Edition 2006; English Special Edition 2006; English Special Edition 2006; English Special Edition 2006).

- 301), as last amended by Article 1(2) of the Law of 15 February 2006 (Official Journal, p. 474, 530), as amended.

- Section 6 Operations management and management organisation § 27 Operations management in fire protection and technical assistance (1) The operations management must manage the use of fire brigades and all forces at the site of damage and, if necessary, require further fire brigades as well as forces and equipment.

- Section 6 Operations management and management organisation § 27 Operations management in fire protection and technical assistance (1) Operations management must manage the use of fire brigades and all operations personnel at the site of damage and, if necessary, require further fire brigades as well as operations personnel and operational resources. Operations management consists of the Operations Manager, assisted by a rear management facility as well as, if necessary, the management assistants and management assistants and the management assistants.

- The operational management consists of the operational manager, supported by a rear management facility as well as, if necessary, the management assistants and management assistants. In its structure and scope, it depends on the hazard situation, the damage event and the units to be led.

- In its structure and scope, it depends on the danger situation, the damage event and the units to be led. If the police are not available, the operational management can provide access to the damage site and its surroundings or refer persons from there and block the damage site and the fire brigade's operating area or take other security measures if otherwise the operation would be impeded.

- As far as the police are not available, the operational management can provide access to the damage site and its surroundings or refer persons from there and block the damage site and the fire department's operating area or take other security measures if otherwise the operation would be impeded. The measures can be carried out with the means of administrative coercion.

- The measures may be carried out with the means of administrative coercion. (2) The first unit leader or unit leader of the fire brigade shall conduct the operation within the limits of his or her qualification.

- 2. The first unit leader or unit leader of the fire brigade shall lead the operation within the limits of his or her qualification. The operational management may be taken over by the competent fire department leader or by the competent fire department leader or by the competent fire department leader or by the competent fire department leader or by the competent fire department commander or unit leader in communities with professional fire brigades - page 21 of 41 - with a training of the higher or higher fire department.

- The operational management may be taken over by the competent fire department, fire department or fire department leader or by the competent fire department or fire department leader or by the competent fire department leader or in municipalities with professional fire department by the one-off officer - page 21 of 41 - with a training of the higher or higher fire service. (3) If units of the volunteer fire department or the compulsory fire department of several municipalities are used, the competent fire inspector or fire inspector may take over the management of the operation.

- (3) If units of the voluntary fire brigade or the compulsory fire brigade of several municipalities are used, the competent fire inspector or the competent fire inspector may take over the management of the operation. (4) If units of the voluntary fire brigade or the compulsory fire brigade of several counties or one or more counties and the regional association Saarbrücken are used, the national fire inspector may take over the operational management.

- (4) If units of the voluntary fire brigade or the compulsory fire brigade of several counties or one or more counties and the regional association Saarbrücken are used, the Lan desbrandinspektor or the state fire inspector can take over the operational management. (5) If, in addition to the voluntary fire brigade or the compulsory fire brigade, a professional fire brigade is used outside of its field of departure, they form a joint operational management, the leadership of which lies with the fire brigade of the site of operation, unless it is transferred to the professional fire brigade.

- 5. If, in addition to the voluntary fire brigade or the compulsory fire brigade, a professional fire brigade is used outside its scope, it shall form a joint operational management whose leadership lies with the fire brigade of the place of operation, provided that it is not transferred to the professional fire brigade. Paragraphs 3 and 4 shall remain unaffected.

- Paragraphs 3 and 4 remain unaffected. (6) If, in addition to the fire brigade, other relief organizations, the Bundesanstalt Technisches Hilfswerk or the rescue service are used, they form a joint operational management whose leadership lies with the fire brigade.

- (6) If, in addition to the fire brigade, other relief organizations, the Bundesanstalt Technisches Hilfswerk or the rescue service are used, they form a joint operational management, whose leadership lies with the fire brigade. The responsibilities of an emergency doctor or an emergency doctor and a senior emergency doctor in medical matters remain unaffected.

- The responsibilities of an emergency doctor or an emergency doctor and an emergency medical officer in medical matters remain unaffected. (7) The operational management in plants and other facilities with a fire brigade shall be provided by the unit leader or unit leader of the fire brigade, first arriving at the site of operation, within the framework of his or her qualification.

- (7) The operational management in plants and other facilities with a factory fire brigade shall be provided by the unit leader or unit leader of the factory fire brigade, first arriving at the site, within the scope of his or her qualification. It may be taken over by the military commander or by the military commander.

- It can be taken over by the Wehrführer or by the Wehrführer. If a municipal fire brigade is used next to the Werkfeuerwehr, then it is a joint operational management whose leadership lies with the Werkfeuerwehr.

- If a municipal fire brigade is used in addition to the fire brigade, it shall have a joint operational management, the leadership of which shall lie with the fire brigade. (8) If hazardous situations require special measures, the competent supervisory authorities may give instructions to the operational management and take over the organisational management.

- (9) The competent supervisory authorities may regulate the mutual assistance of the municipalities through management assistants or management assistants and the provision of management resources.

- (9) The competent supervisory authorities may regulate the mutual support of the municipalities by management assistants or management assistants as well as the provision of management funds. § 28 Management of the defence measures in civil protection (1) The lower civil protection authority is responsible for the uniform management of all defense measures.

- § 28 Management of the defense measures in civil protection (1) The lower civil protection authority is responsible for the uniform management of all defense measures. It uses a management organization in which representatives of the specialized authorities, in particular from the areas of health and environment, the aid organizations, the Bun- desanstalt Technisches Hilfswerk, the police, the Bundeswehr, the supply companies as well as other professionally suitable persons as specialist advisors, specialist advisors and liaison persons cooperate.

- It uses a management organisation in which representatives of the specialist authorities, in particular from the fields of health and the environment, the aid organizations, the Bun- desanstalt Technisches Hilfswerk, the police, the Bundeswehr, the utility companies as well as other technically suitable persons as specialist advisors, specialist advisors and liaison persons participate. (2) The lower civil protection authority orders the use of the necessary units and installations.

- 2. The lower civil protection authority shall order the use of the necessary units and installations. For the duration of the operation, all units and facilities shall be assigned to it.

- For the duration of the operation, all units and facilities are assigned to it. The lower civil protection authority appoints a local technical operation.

- The lower civil protection authority appoints a local technical operation which, in accordance with the instructions of the lower civil protection authority, directs the activities of the units and facilities at the site of deployment.

- In accordance with the instructions of the lower civil protection authority, it conducts the operations of the units and facilities at the site of operation. Until the appointment of a technical operations management, the leader or leader of a unit or institution of civil protection who first arrives at the site of damage shall perform the task of the technical operations management.

- Until the appointment of a Technical Operations Management, the task of the Technical Operations Management shall be carried out by the leader or leader of a unit or institution of civil protection first arriving at the site of damage. - Page 22 of 41 - (3) In the area of responsibility of the Federal Waterway Administration, in establishments and facilities of the Bundeswehr and in the establishments and facilities under the supervision of the mountain authorities, the operation shall be carried out in agreement with the competent authority or department.

- - page 22 of 41 - (3) In the area of responsibility of the Federal Waterway Administration, in the Federal Armed Forces and in the establishments and facilities under the supervision of the mountain authorities, the operation must be carried out in agreement with the competent authority or department. More information must be provided in the civil protection plan.

- (4) Insofar as this is necessary for effective civil protection, the Supreme Civil Protection Authority may issue general and specific instructions, involve the uniform management of the defence measures and entrust a lower civil protection authority with the overall management of the defence measures to several civil protection authorities involved.

- (4) Insofar as this is necessary for effective civil protection, the Supreme Civil Protection Authority may issue general and special instructions, draw the uniform management of the defence measures and commission a lower civil protection authority with the overall management of the defence measures with several participating civil protection authorities. (5) The Supreme Civil Protection Authority shall, if necessary, require forces from the federal and state authorities.

- (5) The Supreme Civil Protection Authority shall, in case of need, require forces of the Federal Government and the Länder. The lower civil protection authorities may, in agreement with the Supreme Civil Protection Authority, request forces of the Federal Government, provided that they are stationed within the competence of the requesting authority.

- The lower civil protection authorities may, in agreement with the Supreme Katastrophenschutzbehörde, request federal forces, provided that they are stationed within the competence of the requesting authority. The requested forces are subject to the instructions of the competent civil protection authority.

- The requested forces are subject to the instructions of the competent civil protection authority. § 15 para. 5 remains unaffected.

- § 15 para. 5 remains unaffected. (6) The lower civil protection authority shall notify the highest civil protection authority immediately of the occurrence of a catastrophe as well as of such events which may develop into a catastrophe.

- (6) The lower civil protection authority shall notify the highest civil protection authority immediately of the occurrence of a disaster and of any events which may develop into a disaster.

- The notification must also contain the measures already taken to address the disaster.The lower civil protection authority shall immediately inform neighbouring civil protection authorities if they are expected to be affected.

- Section 7 Supervision § 29 Supervision authorities in fire protection and technical assistance (1) Supervision authorities in fire protection and technical assistance within the meaning of this law shall immediately inform neighbouring civil protection authorities if they are expected to be affected.

