# 3.

- the state capital Saarbrücken for the regional association members municipalities. (2) The supreme supervisory authority is the Ministry of Home Affairs, Building and Sport.

- (2) The supreme supervisory authority is the Ministry of Home Affairs, Building and Sport. (3) The supervisory authorities are entitled to check the performance and readiness of firefighters at any time.

- (3) The supervisory authorities are entitled to check the performance and readiness of the fire brigades at any time. § 30 Landesbrandinspektor, Landesbrandinspektorin - Page 23 of 41 - (1) The Landesbrandinspektorin or the Landesbrandinspektorin is the fire brigade officer and consultant or the fire brigade officer and consultant of the Minister for Home Affairs, Building and Sports or the Minister for Home Affairs, Building and Sports.

- § 30 Landesbrandinspektor, Landesbrandinspektorin - Page 23 of 41 - (1) The Landesbrandinspektorinspektorin or the Landesbrandinspektorin is the fire-fighting officer and consultant or the fire-fighting officer and consultant of the Minister for Home Affairs, Building and Sports. He or she advises and assists with the supervision and the execution of the tasks in accordance with this law.

- He or she advises and assists with the supervision and the execution of the tasks in accordance with this law. He or she may defend the fire inspectors or fire inspectors and the members of the volunteers as well as give professional instructions to the compulsory fire brigades.

- He or she may defend the fire inspectors or fire inspectors and the members of the volunteers as well as give technical instructions to the compulsory fire brigades. For the duration of his or her term of office, he or she may, with the consent of the Ministry of Home Affairs, Building and Sport, appoint an authorised representative or an authorised representative for the youth fire brigades.

- For the duration of his or her term of office, he or she may, with the consent of the Ministry of Home Affairs, Building and Sport, appoint an authorised representative or an authorised representative for the youth fire brigades.

- (2) The state fire inspector is an honorary official or honorary official of the country. He or she is appointed by the Ministry of Home Affairs, Building and Sports after consulting the fire inspectors and fire inspectors as well as the state fire brigade association Saarland e.

- He or she is appointed by the Ministry of the Interior, Building and Sport after consulting the fire inspectors and fire inspectors as well as the Landesfeuerwehrverband Saarland e.V. for the duration of eight years.

- V. appointed for a period of eight years. He or she may, after consulting the fire inspectors and fire inspectors as well as the Landesfeuerwehrverband Saarland e.

- He or she can be dismissed after hearing the fire inspectors and fire inspectors as well as the Landesfeuerwehrverband Saarland e. V. for an important reason.

- The national fire inspector shall have two permanent representatives.

- (3) The state fire inspector has two permanent representatives. They are appointed by the Ministry of Home Affairs, Building and Sports after consulting the fire inspectors and fire inspectors as well as the state fire brigade association Saarland e.

- They are appointed by the Ministry of the Interior, Building and Sport after consulting the fire inspectors and fire inspectors as well as the Landesfeuerwehrverband Saarland e. V. for eight years.

- V. for eight years. (4) § 25 shall apply mutatis mutandis.

- (4) § 25 applies accordingly. § 31 Fire inspector, fire inspector (1) The fire inspector is the fire-weir technical officer and consultant or the fire-weir technical officer and consultant of the Landrat or the land councillor.

- § 31 Fire inspector, fire inspector (1) The fire inspector is the fire brigade technical officer and consultant or the fire inspector is the fire brigade technical officer and consultant of the Landrat or the Landrätin. He or she advises and assists with the supervision of the volunteer fire brigades and compulsory fire brigades as well as with the execution of the tasks in accordance with this law.

- He or she advises and assists with the supervision of the volunteer fire brigades and compulsory fire brigades as well as with the execution of the tasks in accordance with this law. Within the framework of these responsibilities, the fire inspector or fire inspector may give the firefighters professional instructions.

- Within the framework of these responsibilities, the fire inspector may issue technical instructions to the firefighters. For the duration of his or her term of office, he or she may, with the consent of the Land Council or the Land Councillor, appoint an authorised representative for the youth fire brigades and other agents for certain fields.

- For the duration of his or her term of office, he or she may, with the consent of the Landrat or the Landratin, appoint an agent for the youth fire brigades and other agents for certain fields. He or she is an honorary officer or honorary officer of the district.

- He or she is an honorary officer or honorary officer of the district. He or she is appointed by the Landrat or the Landratin after consulting the Landbrandinspektor, the Wehrfführer und Wehrführerin der kreisbehängigen Gemeinden as well as the respective Kreisfeuerwehrverband by the Landrat or the Landratin for the duration of eight years.

- He or she will be appointed by the Landrat or the Landrat for the duration of eight years after consultation of the Landbrandinspektor, the Wehrführer und Wehrführerin der kreisbehörden Gemeinden, and the respective Kreisfeuerverband by the Landrat or the Landratin. He or she may be dismissed after consultation of the Landbrandinspektor or the Landbrandinspektorin, the Wehrführer und Wehrführerin der kreisbehörden Gemeinden and the respective Kreisfeuerverband for important reasons.

- He or she may be dismissed for important reasons after consultation of the Land fire inspector or the Land fire inspector, the Wehrführer and Wehrführerin der kreisbehörden Gemeinden as well as the respective Kreisfeuerwehrverband. (2) The fire inspector in the regional association Saarbrücken is the fire-wehr technical officer and consultant or the fire inspector in the regional association Saarbrücken is the fire-wehr technical officer and consultant of the mayor or the mayor of the state capital Saarbrücken.

- (2) The fire inspector in the regional association Saarbrücken is the fire brigade technical officer and consultant or the fire inspector in the regional association Saarbrücken is the fire brigade technical officer and consultant of the mayor or the mayor of the state capital Saarbrücken. He or she advises and assists with the supervision of the volunteer fire sufferings and compulsory fire brigades as well as with the execution of the tasks in accordance with this provision.

- He or she advises and assists with the supervision of the fire brigades and compulsory fire brigades as well as with the performance of the tasks in accordance with this provision. Within the framework of these responsibilities, the fire inspector or fire inspector may give the firefighters professional instructions.

- Within the framework of these responsibilities, the fire inspector may issue technical instructions to the firefighters. For the duration of his or her term of office, he or she may, with the consent of the mayor or the mayor of the state capital of Saarbrücken, appoint an authorised representative for the youth fire brigades and otherwise - page 24 of 41 - an authorised representative for certain departments.

- For the duration of his or her term of office, he or she may, with the consent of the Lord Mayor or the Lord Mayor of the State capital of Saarbrücken, appoint an authorised representative for the youth fire brigades and, otherwise - page 24 of 41 - an authorised representative for certain departments. He or she is an honorary officer or honorary representative of the state capital of Saarbrücken.

- He or she is an honorary officer or honorary officer of the state capital Saarbrücken. He or she will become a national fire inspector after hearing the state fire inspector, the Wehrfführer und Wehrführerinnen der regionalverbandsangöiger Gemeinden as well as the fire brigade association for the regional association Saarbrücken e.

- He or she will be appointed by the Mayor of Saarbrücken or the Mayor of Saarbrücken for a period of eight years after hearing the Land Brand Inspector, the Wehrfführer and the Wehrführer of the regional federations of municipalities and the Fire Brigade Association for the regional association Saarbrücken e.V.

- V. appointed by the Lord Mayor or by the Lord Mayor of Saarbrücken for the duration of eight years. He or she may, after consulting the Land Brand Inspector or the Land Brand Inspector, the Wehrführer and Wehrführer of the regional association members Gemeinden and the Fire Brigade Association for the Regional Association Saarbrücken e.

- He or she may be dismissed for important reasons after consultation of the state fire inspector or the state fire inspector, the Wehrführer and Wehrführer of the regional association members Gemeinden and the fire brigade association for the regional association Saarbrücken e. V..

- (3) The fire inspector is supported and represented by up to two district fire master or district fire master, in the regional association Saarbrücken by up to two regional association fire master or regional association fire master.

- (3) The fire inspector is supported and represented by up to two district fire master or district fire master, in the regional association Saarbrücken by up to two regional association fire master or regional association fire master. These must possess the support of the association leader and head of a fire department and are appointed in the districts by the Landrat or the Landrätin, in the regional association Saarbrücken by the mayor or the mayor of the state capital Saarbrücken, after consultation of the fire inspector or the fire inspector, the military leader and military leader of the respective municipal council and the fire brigade formed for the respective community association for the duration of eight years into the honorary civil servant relationship.

- These must have the authority to become the association leader and head of a fire department and are appointed in the counties by the Landrat or the Landrätin, in the regional association Saarbrücken by the mayor or the mayor of the state capital Saarbrücken, after consultation of the fire inspector or the fire inspector, the Wehrführer and the Wehrführerin of the respective municipal authority and the fire brigade formed for the respective municipal association for the duration of eight years in the honorary civil servant ratio. (4) § 25 applies accordingly.

- § 32 Supervisory powers in civil protection (1) The lower civil protection authority supervises the private units and institutions involved in civil protection.

- § 32 Supervision powers in civil protection (1) The lower civil protection authority supervises the private units and institutions involved in civil protection. In particular, it supervises their establishment, training and equipment.

- It shall in particular monitor the establishment, training and equipment of such units and shall be supervised by the organisations of the private units and institutions.

- The supervision shall be carried out with the participation of the organisations of private entities and bodies, and the supervision shall cover the legality and expeditiousness of the performance of the tasks.

- 2. In the case of exercises ordered or approved by the civil protection authorities, as well as with regard to the maintenance and maintenance of the equipment acquired or maintained by public funds, the private units and bodies involved in civil protection shall be subject to the instructions of the lower civil protection authority.

- 2. In the case of exercises ordered or approved by the civil protection authorities, as well as with regard to the maintenance and maintenance of the equipment acquired or maintained by public funds, the private units and bodies involved in civil protection shall be subject to the instructions of the lower civil protection authority. (3) If a private unit or body does not comply with the provisions of this law or with the administrative provisions and instructions given pursuant to this law, the lower civil protection authority may set a time limit for the fulfilment of the obligation.

- 3. If a private entity or body fails to comply with the provisions of this law or with the administrative provisions and instructions given pursuant to this law, the lower civil protection authority may set a time limit for the fulfilment of the obligation. If this time limit is not met, the lower civil protection authority may carry out the order itself or delegate the execution to another.

- If this time limit is not met, the lower civil protection authority may carry out the order itself or transfer the execution to another. In the case of operations, no time limit is required.

- In the case of operations, no time limit is required. In serious cases, the Civil Protection Authority may revoke the special recognition.

- In serious cases, the Civil Protection Authority may revoke special recognition. (4) The supreme supervisory authority is the Ministry of Home Affairs, Building and Sport.

- (4) The supreme supervisory authority is the Ministry of Home Affairs, Building and Sport. (5) The supervisory authorities are entitled to review the performance and operational readiness of the units and facilities of civil protection at any time.

- (5) The supervisory authorities are entitled at any time to review the level of performance and willingness to use the units and facilities of civil protection. Section 8 Preventive Hazard Protection § 33 - Page 25 of 41 - Prevention of Hazards (1) Each person must behave in such a way that people and significant material values are not endangered, especially when dealing with fire, combustible, explosive, toxic or other harmful substances and with electrical equipment.

- Section 8 Preventive Hazard Protection § 33 - Page 25 of 41 - Prevention of Hazards (1) Each person must behave in such a way as not to endanger humans and significant material values, especially when dealing with fire, combustible, explosive, toxic or other harmful substances and with electrical equipment.

- (2) Owners or owners, owners or operators of construction installations which are particularly hazardous to fire or explosion or of which, in the event of a fire, explosion or otherwise dangerous event, serious risks to the health or life of a larger number of people, risks to material or acute environmental hazards may arise, shall be obliged to provide special assistance to fire or civil protection officers in the preparation of security measures.

- 2. Owners or owners, owners or owners or operators of construction installations which are particularly hazardous to fire or explosion, or which, in the event of a fire, explosion or other dangerous event, may pose serious risks to the health or life of a larger number of people, risks to significant material or acute environmental hazards, shall be obliged to provide special assistance to fire or civil protection agents in the preparation of security. They shall provide the responsible actors with the information and advice necessary for the alarm and operational planning in accordance with this Act and, in the event of a damage event in the installation, shall provide the competent authorities with immediate, informed and comprehensive advice on appropriate measures to prevent risks.

- In accordance with this law, you must provide the responsible authorities with the information and the necessary advice necessary for the alarm and deployment planning and, in the event of an event of damage in the installation, the responsible authorities with immediate, competent and comprehensive advice on appropriate security measures. In addition, the owners or owners, owners or operators, unless there is a legal obligation, may be obliged by the respective responsible fire or disaster protection authorities to prevent or combat fires, explosions and other dangerous events at their own expense.

