# 4.

- ensuring the restoration, restoration and cleaning of the environment after a serious accident. § 35 Hazard Prevention Show (1) For the purpose of preventive fire protection, a hazard prevention show takes place at regular intervals.

- § 35 Hazard Prevention Show (1) For the purpose of preventive fire protection, a hazard prevention show takes place at regular intervals. This does not apply to companies which are subject to the permanent supervision of the mountain authority.

- This does not apply to establishments subject to the permanent supervision of the mining authority. (2) The risk-prevention survey examines buildings, installations and facilities which are particularly vulnerable to fire or fire or in which a greater number of persons would be at risk in the event of a fire or other danger.

- (2) The Hazard Prevention Review shall examine buildings, installations and facilities which are particularly vulnerable to fire or fire or in which a greater number of persons would be at risk in the event of a fire or other danger. (3) Owners, owners and other authorized users of buildings, installations and facilities shall be obliged to allow the Hazard Prevention Review to be conducted by the persons responsible for this purpose to access all rooms and to examine all facilities and installations, to provide the necessary information and to remedy the deficiencies identified in the Hazard Prevention Review within the time limit set for them.

- (3) Owners, owners and other authorized users of buildings, installations and facilities are obliged to allow the persons responsible for the prevention of risks to access all rooms and to examine all facilities and installations, to provide the necessary information and to remedy the deficiencies identified during the prevention exercise within the time limit set for them. (4) In public buildings, installations and facilities of the Federal Government or of the country, the prevention of traffic shall take place in consultation with their authorities.

- (4) In public buildings, facilities and facilities of the Federal Government or of the Land, the traffic prevention inspection shall take place in consultation with their authorities. - Page 29 of 41 - (5) The hazard prevention inspection shall be carried out by the municipality.

- - page 29 of 41 - (5) Hazard prevention is the responsibility of the municipality. It is carried out in municipalities with professional fire brigade by members of the professional fire brigade, in municipalities with full-time members of the fire brigade or with specially trained other full-time staff by them and in the other municipalities by the Hazard Prevention Commission.

- It is carried out in municipalities with professional fire brigade by members of the professional fire brigade, in municipalities with full-time members of the fire brigade or with specially trained other full-time staff by the fire brigade and in the other municipalities by the Hazard Prevention Commission. (6) In establishments or facilities with factory fire brigade, the fire brigade carries out a risk prevention exercise.

- (6) In factories or facilities with fire brigades, the fire brigades carry out a risk prevention exercise; the municipality may order an extraordinary risk prevention exercise for plants and facilities with fire brigades if facts justify the suspicion of an increased fire or explosion risk in individual cases.

- The municipality can order an extraordinary risk prevention show for plants and facilities with fire brigades if facts justify in individual cases the suspicion of an increased fire or explosion risk. § 36 Safety watch The authorities responsible for the risk prevention show should indicate by the organiser that a fire safety watch and a medical guard (security guard) are set up, as well as their nature and scope, at events in which a large number of people can be endangered in the event of a fire, an explosion or any other dangerous event.

- § 36 Safety watch The authorities responsible for the risk prevention show should require the organiser, or the organiser, to establish a fire safety watch and a medical guard, as well as the nature and extent of such watch, at events where a fire, explosion or other dangerous event can endanger a larger number of people.

- The organiser shall bear the costs. The Ministry of Home Affairs, Building and Sport shall be authorised to adopt administrative provisions on the implementation of the security guard.

- The Ministry of Home Affairs, Building and Sport is empowered to adopt administrative regulations on the implementation of the security guard. § 37 Enlightenment and self-help The residents are to be informed by the task- ers about the prevention of fires and the proper handling of fires as well as the behaviour in the event of fires, other accidents, major damage situations and disasters as well as possibilities of self-help.

- § 37 Enlightenment and self-help The residents are to be informed by the responsible authorities about the prevention of fires and the appropriate handling of fires as well as the behaviour in the event of fires, other accidents, large damage situations and disasters as well as about possibilities of self-help. Section 9 Obligations of the population § 38 Hazard notification (1) Anyone who notices a fire, accident or other event that endangers humans, significant material values or the environment is obliged to notify the fire department or a police department immediately, provided that he or she does not remove the danger itself.

- Section 9 Obligations of the population § 38 Hazard notification (1) If you notice a fire, accident or other event that endangers people, significant material values or the environment, you are obliged to immediately notify the fire department or a police department, provided that you or it does not remove the danger itself. (2) In the event of a danger situation according to paragraph 1 in a plant or a facility with a factory fire brigade, the head of the plant or facility, his or her representative or the head of the factory fire brigade, is obliged to notify immediately the fire department or a police department, provided that the factory fire brigade is unable to eliminate the danger itself.

- (2) In the event of a danger situation as referred to in paragraph 1 in a factory or a factory fire brigade facility, the head of the plant or facility, his or her representative or the head of the factory fire brigade shall be obliged to notify immediately the fire brigade operations centre or police department, provided that the factory fire brigade is unable to eliminate the danger itself. § 39 Obligations to provide assistance (1) Every person over 18 years old is obliged to provide assistance in the context of his or her knowledge and skills at the command of the operations supervisor in order to prevent immediate dangers or to remedy significant damage to the individual or to the general public.

- § 39 Obligations to provide assistance (1) Every person over 18 years old is obliged to provide assistance in the context of his or her knowledge and skills at the request of the Chief of Operations, in order to prevent immediate dangers from the individual or the general public or to eliminate significant damage.The assistance - page 30 of 41 - service can only refuse anyone who would have to fear danger to life and limb or who would have to violate priority duties.

- The assistance - page 30 of 41 - can only refuse who would have to fear danger for life and limb or violate priority duties. (2) Those who are called upon to provide assistance in accordance with paragraph 1 or with the consent of the Chief of Operations or the Chief of Operations voluntarily provide assistance in the fight against danger or immediately afterwards in the repair of significant damage, have for the duration of the assistance the legal status of helpers in civil protection.

- (2) Those who are used to provide assistance in accordance with paragraph 1 or, with the consent of the Chief of Operations or the Chief of Operations, voluntarily provide assistance in the fight against danger or immediately thereafter in the repair of significant damage, shall have the status of helpers in civil protection for the duration of the assistance. §§ 25 and 26 shall apply accordingly.

- §§ 25 and 26 apply accordingly. (3) At the request of the operational management or a civil protection authority, urgently needed aids, in particular vehicles, equipment, materials, operating materials, machines or structural equipment, must be made available by each person.

- (3) At the request of the operational management or a civil protection authority, urgently needed aids, in particular vehicles, equipment, materials, operating materials, machines or structural equipment, are to be provided by each person. (4) The civil protection authority can each person to material and plant services within the scope of § 2 para. 1 of the Federal Performance Act as amended by the notice dated 27 September 1961 (BGBl.

- (4) The Civil Protection Authority may provide any person with material and work services within the scope of Section 2 (1) of the Federal Performance Act, as amended by the notice dated 27 September 1961 (BGBl. I p. 1769, 1920), as last amended by Article 2 (10) of the Law of 12 August 2005 (BGBl.

- I, p. 1769, 1920), as last amended by Article 2(10) of the Law of 12 August 2005 (BGBl I, p. 2354), as amended, as well as on services, to the extent necessary to defend against major damage or disaster.

- 2354), in the version in force and in the case of services to the extent necessary to prevent major damage or disaster; the use of such services must not exceed five days.

- The use shall not exceed five days. The first sentence shall not apply.

