# 2.

- 5. The Civil Protection Authority shall be entitled to pre-register persons with special knowledge or ability to provide assistance and property referred to in paragraph 4.

- 5. The Civil Protection Authority shall have the right to record persons with special knowledge or ability to provide assistance and property in accordance with paragraph 4. The persons concerned, as well as the owners or owners, owners or other authorized users, shall be obliged to provide the necessary information and to notify changes.

- The persons concerned, as well as the owners or owners, owners or other authorized users, are obliged to provide the necessary information and to notify changes. § 40 Obligations to tolerate (1) Owners, owners or other authorized users of land, construction installations or ships at or near the operating site are obliged to allow the operational personnel to access their premises, construction installations or ships for the prevention or elimination of risks.

- § 40 Obligations to tolerate (1) Owners or owners, owners or other authorized users of land, building installations or ships at or near the operational site are obliged to allow the operational personnel to access their premises, construction installations or ships in order to ward off or eliminate risks. They have to tolerate the measures ordered by the operational manager, in particular the clearing of the property or the elimination of buildings, building parts, installations, storage materials, enclosures and plants.

- They shall tolerate the measures ordered by the Chief of Operations, in particular the clearing of the land or the removal of buildings, parts of buildings, installations, storage, enclosures and plants. (2) Owners or owners, owners or other authorized use of land, building installations or ships shall be obliged to tolerate the installation of alarm devices and warning signs for fire protection, technical assistance and catastrophic protection purposes without compensation.

- (2) Owners or owners, owners or other authorized users of land, buildings or ships are obliged to tolerate the installation of alarm devices and warning signs for the purposes of fire protection, technical assistance and disaster protection without compensation. § 41 Compensations - Page 31 of 41 - (1) Anyone who is claimed pursuant to §§ 39 and 40 and thereby suffers a loss of property in movable or immovable property may demand appropriate compensation from the person responsible for the task who has claimed it.

- § 41 Compensations - Page 31 of 41 - (1) Anyone who is claimed according to §§ 39 and 40 and thereby suffers a loss of property in movable or immovable property can demand adequate compensation from the person responsible for the assignment. (2) Anyone who has provided services that are not minor in the performance of obligations must be compensated in cash on his application.

- (2) Anyone who has provided services which are not minor in the performance of obligations shall be compensated in cash on his application. Compensation shall be determined on a fair basis of the interests of the general public and the injured party.

- The compensation is to be determined on the basis of fair consideration of the interests of the general public and the injured person. §§ 20 to 23, 25, 26, 28 to 32 and 43 of the Federal Service Act apply accordingly for the determination and payment of the compensation.

- Sections 20 to 23, 25, 26, 28 to 32 and 43 of the Federal Benefits Act apply accordingly for the calculation and payment of compensation. The application is decided by the authority which issued the order.

- If the claim is directed against the country, the Ministry of Home Affairs, Building and Sport decides in agreement with the Ministry of Finance and Europe.

- If the claim is directed against the country, the Ministry of Home Affairs, Building and Sport shall decide in agreement with the Ministry of Finance and Europe. (3) There shall not be any claim for compensation in so far as the injured party may otherwise request compensation or where the orders to protect the injured person or his or her property have been made.

- (3) There is no right to compensation insofar as the victim may otherwise demand compensation or insofar as the orders for the protection of the victim or his or her property have been made. Any loss of profit shall not be replaced.

- (4) Paragraphs 1 to 3 shall apply mutatis mutandis if a person has not been used in accordance with §§ 39 and 40, he shall provide services which are recognised as necessary by the task-bearer for the purpose of combating danger.

- (4) Paragraphs 1 to 3 shall apply mutatis mutandis if a person without having been called upon pursuant to Sections 39 and 40 provides services which are recognised as necessary for the prevention of risks by the responsible person. Section 10 Health sector § 42 Participation of the health sector (1) Hospitals, preventive and rehabilitation facilities, elderly and nursing establishments, pharmacies, public health service, public veterinary service, professional representatives of doctors and doctors, dentists and dentists, pharmacists, veterinarians and veterinarians, psychological psychotherapists and psychotherapists, children's and adolescents' psychotherapists and the professional associations of the specialized professions of the health, veterinary and nursing professions shall participate in the tasks provided for in this Act.

- Section 10 Health sector § 42 Health sector involvement (1) Hospitals, preventive and rehabilitation facilities, elderly and nursing establishments, pharmacies, public health service, public veterinary service, professional representatives of doctors, dentists and dentists, pharmacists, veterinarians, psychotherapists and psychotherapists, psychotherapists of children and adolescents, and psychotherapists of children and adolescents, as well as the professional associations of the specialized professions of health, veterinary and nursing, are required to cooperate in the tasks under this Act.

- The responsible bodies referred to in § 2 and the bodies and bodies referred to in sentence 1 shall be obliged to cooperate. (2) In accordance with this Act, the security plans, alarm and deployment plans drawn up by the responsible bodies in accordance with § 2 shall include the bodies referred to in paragraph 1 sentence 1 as far as this is necessary.

- (2) The security plans, alarm plans and operational plans drawn up by the responsible authorities in accordance with § 2 of this Act shall include the posts referred to in paragraph 1, sentence 1, to the extent necessary. (3) Hospitals, preventive and rehabilitation facilities and facilities in which a larger number of people in need of care or other assistance are accommodated shall be obliged to establish operational guidance for the tasks referred to in this Act, to establish and update alarm and operational plans and to carry out exercises and to participate in exercises of the responsible authorities in accordance with § 2.

- (3) Hospitals, precaution and rehabilitation facilities, as well as facilities in which a large number of people in need of care or otherwise need to be accommodated, are obliged to establish operational guidance for the tasks under this law, to establish and continue alarm and deployment plans and to carry out exercises and to participate in exercises of the recipients according to § 2. In the alarm and deployment plans also the support possibilities by the established doctors and doctors and those in the civil protection involved in the organizations must be taken into account.

- The alarm and deployment plans shall also take into account the support possibilities of the doctors and doctors who are established and who are involved in civil protection. The alarm and deployment plans shall be coordinated with the security plans, alarm and deployment plans of the responsible civil protection authorities according to § 2 at the request of the competent lower civil protection authority.

- At the request of the competent lower civil protection authority, the alarm and deployment plans shall be coordinated with the security plans, alarm and deployment plans of the task-men in accordance with § 2. (4) The Ministry of Labour, Social Affairs, Women and Health may require the providers of hospitals, preventive and rehabilitation facilities, as well as the facilities in which a larger number of people in need of care or other assistance can be accommodated, to provide facilities - page 32 of 41 - or parts of buildings, personnel and material resources, as far as this is necessary to deal with exceptional situations, major damage situations and disasters.

- (4) The Ministry of Labour, Social Affairs, Women and Health may require the providers of hospitals, preventive and rehabilitation facilities and facilities in which a greater number of people in need of care or other assistance can be accommodated to provide facilities - page 32 of 41 - or parts of buildings, personnel and material resources, to the extent necessary to deal with exceptional situations, major damage and disasters. (5) Hospitals, preventive and rehabilitation facilities and facilities in which a greater number of people in need of care or other assistance are accommodated shall, in accordance with § 2, provide the recipients with particular information on the number of beds and special beds, on special examination and treatment facilities, reception and operation capacities and on personal accommodation.

- (5) According to § 2, hospitals, preventive and rehabilitation facilities and facilities in which a large number of people in need of care or other assistance are accommodated shall provide the recipients with particular information on the number of beds and special beds, on special examination and treatment options, reception and operation capacities, as well as on personal supervision. The providers of hospitals, preventive and rehabilitation facilities are obliged to take appropriate measures in the event of major damage and disasters in order to provide reception and treatment capacities.

- The institutions of hospitals, preventive and rehabilitation facilities are obliged to take appropriate measures to provide reception and treatment capacity in the event of major damage and disasters. Measures to increase reception and treatment capacity must be included in the alarm and deployment plans of hospitals, preventive and rehabilitation facilities.

- The measures to increase reception and treatment capacities must be included in the alarm and intervention plans of the hospitals, precaution and rehabilitation facilities. § 43 Special obligations of health professionals (1) Doctors and doctors working in their profession, psychotherapists and psychotherapists, dentists and dentists, veterinarians, pharmacists and members of the specialised professions of health, veterinary and nursing are obliged to continue to train for the purposes of this law.

- § 43 Special obligations of health professionals (1) Physicians and doctors, psychotherapists and psychotherapists, dentists and dentists, veterinarians, pharmacists and pharmacists working in their profession, as well as members of the specialised health, veterinary and nursing professions, are obliged to continue to train themselves in accordance with this law. (2) In accordance with this law, the security plans, alerts and operational plans drawn up by the responsible bodies in accordance with § 2 shall include the persons referred to in paragraph 1 insofar as this is necessary for participation in operations and exercises.

- (2) The security plans, alarm and deployment plans drawn up by the task-bearers in accordance with § 2 shall include the persons referred to in paragraph 1 insofar as this is necessary for participation in operations and exercises. The persons referred to in paragraph 1 may be obliged by the task-bearers in accordance with § 2 to participate in operations and exercises.

- The persons referred to in paragraph 1 may be obliged by the responsible authorities under § 2 to participate in assignments and exercises. Participation in exercises takes place in coordination with the professional chambers, the Saarland Insurance Association, the Saarländische Krankenhausgesellschaft e.

- Participation in exercises takes place in coordination with the vocational chambers, the Saarland Insurance Association, the Saarland Hospital Association and the professional associations of the professions of health, veterinary and nursing.

- V. and the professional associations of the specialized professions of the health, veterinary and nursing sciences. (3) The professional chambers, the other professional representatives, the Saarland health insurance association, as well as the bodies of the public health service and the public veterinary service, shall communicate to the responsible bodies in accordance with § 2 the information they need for the implementation of this law.

- (3) The vocational chambers, the other professional representatives, the Saarland health insurance association and the public health services and the public employment services shall communicate to the responsible authorities in accordance with § 2 the information they need to implement this law. Section 11 Rules on costs § 44 Costs for fire protection and technical assistance (1) The municipalities, the districts and the regional association Saarbrücken shall bear the costs of fire protection and technical assistance arising from the implementation of this law.

- Section 11 Costs regulation § 44 Costs for fire protection and technical assistance (1) The municipalities, the districts and the regional association Saarbrücken bear the costs of fire protection and technical assistance arising from the implementation of this law. The costs incurred in accordance with § 4 (2) of the state capital Saarbrücken are borne by the regional association Saarbrücken.

- The regional association Saarbrücken shall bear the costs incurred in accordance with § 4 (2) of the state capital Saarbrücken. (2) The costs of the fire brigades shall be borne by the companies or institutions.

- (2) The costs of the fire brigades shall be borne by the companies or institutions. (3) The country shall bear the personal and material expenses for the national fire inspector or the national fire inspector, the representative or the representative for the youth fire brigades and the youth group spokesman or the youth group spokesman at the national level as well as the State Advisory Council for Fire Protection, Technical Assistance and Civil Protection.

- (3) The country bears the personal and material expenses for the state fire inspector or the state fire inspector, the commissioner or the commissioner for the youth fire brigades and the youth group spokesperson or the youth group spokesperson at the state level as well as the state council for fire protection, technical assistance and civil protection. The state capital Saarbrücken and the districts bear the personal and material expenses for their fire inspectors or fire inspectors, their district fire masters or district fire champions or their regional representatives - page 33 of 41 - band fire master or regional association fire master, the commissioner for the youth fire brigades and the youth groups or youth group spokespersons as well as the other commissioners at the regional association and county level.

- The state capital Saarbrücken and the districts bear the personal and material expenses for their fire inspectors or fire inspectors, their district firemasters or district firemasters or their regional authorities - page 33 of 41 - bandsbrandmeister or regional association firemasters, the commissioner for the youth fire brigades and the youth group spokespersons or youth group spokespersons as well as the other commissioners at regional union and district level. (4) The country grants funds for measures of general or supralocal importance for fire protection and technical assistance according to the state budget.

- 4. For measures of general or extraterritorial importance, the country shall grant funds for fire protection and technical assistance in accordance with the national budget. 5. The country shall grant aid for the personal expenses of firefighters on the occasion of their training and training in accordance with the national budget.

- (5) The country grants subsidies for the personal expenses of firefighters on the occasion of their training and further training in accordance with the national budget. § 44a Special fund for the care of comrades (1) The municipalities may form special funds for the care of comrades and the organisation of events by means of statutes for the extinguishing districts.

- § 44a Special fund for the care of comrades (1) The municipalities may form special funds for the care of comrades and for the organisation of events by means of statutes for the areas of extinguishing. The rules on budgetary management are not applicable to the special funds.

- The rules on budgetary management shall not apply to special assets. 2. For each special fund:

