# 3.

- - page 37 of 41 - (3) If the allocation to the municipal associations calculated in accordance with paragraph 2 is less than EUR 2.5 million, the difference to this amount, up to a maximum of EUR 500,000, will be offset by a withdrawal from the balance sheet in accordance with paragraph 16(2a) of the Local Finance Compensation Act.

- - page 37 of 41 - (3) If the allocation to the municipal associations calculated in accordance with paragraph 2 is less than 2.5 million euros, the difference to this amount, up to a maximum of 500,000 euros, will be compensated by a withdrawal from the compensation fund in accordance with § 16 paragraph 2a of the Municipal Finance Equalization Act. If it exceeds this amount, the difference will be transferred to the compensation fund in previous years up to the amount of the withdrawals in accordance with § 16 paragraph 2a of the Municipal Finance Equalization Act Section 12 Supplementary provisions § 49 Training, training and exercises (1) The municipalities shall carry out the basic training of the volunteer members of their fire brigades and continue to train them.

- If it exceeds this amount, the difference up to the amount of the withdrawals according to § 16 paragraph 2a of the Municipal Finance Equalization Act in previous years will be transferred to the compensation fund Section 12 Supplementary provisions § 49 Training, training and exercises (1) The municipalities carry out the basic training of the volunteer members of their fire brigades and continue to train them. The further training and further training is entrusted to the districts and to the regional association Saarbrücken of the state capital Saarbrücken.

- The further education and training is the responsibility of the districts and the regional association Saarbrücken of the state capital Saarbrücken. It can be transferred to municipalities with their agreement for implementation.

- It can be transferred to municipalities with their approval for implementation. At the fire brigade school of the Saarland, executives are trained and trained as well as specialized knowledge taught.

- At the Saarland Fire School, training and specialist knowledge are provided. (2) Managers, in particular managers of fire brigades as well as trainers and trainers, will be able to take part in a training seminar within six years, starting with the date on which the function is taken over.

- (2) Managers, in particular fire brigade managers and trainers, are to participate in a training seminar within six years, beginning with the date on which the function is taken over. (3) Private aid organisations themselves are responsible for the training and further training of their personnel and managers.

- 3. Private aid organisations themselves shall be responsible for the training and training of their operational and managerial staff. 4. The performance of security shall be tested through exercises and other training and training courses.

- (4) The performance of security must be tested through exercises and other training and training events. § 50 Saarland Fire School The Saarland Fire School is the central training and training centre for fire protection and technical assistance.

- § 50 Saarland Fire School The Saarland Fire School is the central training and training centre for fire protection and technical assistance. It provides training for the members of the management organizations of the Katastrophenschutzamten and the Technical Operations Services.

- It carries out the training of the members of the management organizations of the Katastrophic Protection Authorities and of the Technical Operations Directorates. Further tasks can also be assigned to it.

- § 51 Integrated Control Centre The provisions of the Law on the Establishment and Operation of the Integrated Control Centre of the Saarland apply to the establishment and operation of an Integrated Control Centre.

- § 51 Integrated Control Centre The provisions of the Law on the Establishment and Operation of the Integrated Control Centre of the Saarland apply to the establishment and operation of an Integrated Control Centre. § 52 Data protection (1) The processing of personal data is governed by Regulation (EU) No 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data, the free movement of such data and the imposition of Directive 95/46/EC (OJ L 347, 20.12.2016, p.

- § 52 Data protection (1) The processing of personal data is subject to the provisions of Regulation (EU) No 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data, on the free movement of such data and on the raising of Directive 95/46/EC (OJ L 119, 4.5.2016, p. 1, L 314, p. 72) and of the Saarländische Datenschutzgesetz of 16 May 2018 (Amtsbl.

- OJ L 119, 4.5.2016, p. 1, L 314, p. 72, and the Saarländisches Datenschutzgesetz of 16 May 2018 (Official Journal I, p. 254), as amended.

- (2) The fire brigades, the private institutions involved in civil protection, the Saarland fire brigade school and the authorities responsible for implementing this law may, to the extent necessary, provide the necessary personal data for the establishment - page 38 of 41 - of alarm and operational plans, for the planning and implementation of training and training, for the documentation and billing of operations and other tasks incumbent on them under this law.

- (2) The fire brigades, the private institutions involved in civil protection, the Saarland Fire School and the authorities responsible for the implementation of this Act may, to the extent necessary for the establishment - page 38 of 41 - of alarm and operational plans, for the planning and implementation of training and training as well as for the documentation and settlement of operations and other personal data necessary for the purposes of this Regulation. (3) The personal information centres set up by the civil protection authorities or the police in the event of major damage or catastrophes may process personal data to the extent necessary for the purpose of providing information on the whereabouts of those concerned, as well as for their registration and identification.

- (3) Personal data may be processed by the civil protection authorities or by the police in the event of major damage or disasters, insofar as this is necessary for the purpose of providing information on the whereabouts of the data subject, as well as for their registration and identification. Family members and other data subjects may provide information on the whereabouts of the data subject and provide further information from the persons concerned, unless there are legitimate interests of the data subject or persons concerned in individual cases.

- Citizens and other reference persons of data subjects may be provided with information about their whereabouts and further information may be provided by the person information agency, unless there are legitimate interests of the person or persons concerned in individual cases. This does not apply to the extent that the person or persons concerned has expressly objected to the provision of information.

- This does not apply to the extent that the person or persons concerned has expressly objected to the provision of information. (4) Calls received in the case of intervention and alarm centres may be recorded on phonograms without the consent of the caller or the caller for the documentation of the emergency situation.

- (4) Calls received in case of emergency and alarm centres may be recorded on phonograms without the consent of the caller or the caller for the documentation of the emergency situation.

- In principle, the data must be deleted after three months; further storage is permitted if the records are expected to be required as evidence.

- Further storage is permitted if the records are expected to be required as evidence. (5) The data generated in the application documentation can be evaluated in non-personal form for statistical purposes and for efficiency control purposes.

- (5) The data generated in the application documentation can be evaluated in non-personal form for statistical purposes and for purposes of efficiency control. Section 13 Final provisions § 53 Responsibilities of other authorities The responsibilities of other authorities for fire protection and technical assistance in the event of accidents in their area remain unaffected.

- Section 13 Final provisions § 53 Responsibilities of other authorities The responsibilities of other authorities for fire protection and technical assistance in the event of accidents in their area remain unaffected. § 54 Authorizations (1) The Ministry of Home Affairs, Building and Sport adopts regulations on:

