# 6.

- (2) Infringement of the law may be punishable by a fine of up to EUR 2 500.

- (2) Infringement of the law may be punishable by a fine of up to EUR 2 500. (3) Competent administrative authority within the meaning of Section 36 (1) No. 1 of the Ordinance Act (OWiG) as amended by the notice dated 19 February 1987 (BGBl I, p.

- (3) Competent managing authority within the meaning of § 36 (1) point 1 of the Law on Regulatory Provisions (OWiG), as amended by the Notice of 19 February 1987 (BGBl. I, p. 602), as last amended by Article 2 (8) of the Law of 12 August 2005 (BGBl.

- 602), as last amended by Article 2(8) of the Law of 12 August 2005 (BGBl I, p. 2354), as amended, are the Landkreise, the Regionalverband Saarbrücken and the Landeshauptstadt Saarbrücken.

- I p. 2354), in the current version are the counties, the regional association Saarbrücken and the state capital Saarbrücken. § 57 Transitional regulations - page 40 of 41 - (1) The legal regulations and administrative provisions based on the law on fire protection and assistance in Saarland (Brandschutzgesetz - BSG -) of 30 November 1988 (Amtsbl.

- § 57 Transitional provisions - page 40 of 41 - (1) The legal regulations and administrative provisions adopted on the basis of the Law on Fire Protection and Assistance in the Saarland (Brandschutzgesetz - BSG) of 30 November 1988 (Official Journal p. 1410, corrected 1989 p. 1397), as last amended by Article 1 para. 35 of the Act of 15 February 2006 (Official Journal of the European Communities, p.

- 1397), as last amended by Article 1 (35) of the Act of 15 February 2006 (Official Journal, p. 474, 530), shall remain in force until the adoption of new provisions, unless otherwise provided for in this Law.

- 474, 530), shall remain in force until new regulations have been adopted, unless otherwise provided for in this Act. To the extent that these regulations and administrative provisions refer to provisions which have expired, the corresponding provisions of this Act shall apply.

- Insofar as these legal regulations and administrative provisions refer to provisions that have expired, the corresponding provisions of this law apply. (2) The public needs and development plans in accordance with § 3 para. 1 shall be submitted to the supervisory authority until 31 December 2008.

- (2) By way of derogation from Section 30 (2), second sentence and third sentence, and Section 31 (1), sixth sentence, second sentence, and third sentence, second sentence, the term of office of the national fire inspector appointed upon the entry into force of this Act and of the fire inspectors appointed upon the entry into force of this Act, as well as of the appointed alternates and alternates, shall be ten years.

- (3) By way of derogation from § 30 para. 2 sentence 2 and para. 3 sentence 2 as well as § 31 para. 1 sentence 6, para. 2 sentence 6 and para. 3 sentence 2, the term of office of the national fire inspector appointed at the time of entry into force of this law and of the fire inspectors appointed at the time of entry into force of this law, as well as of the appointed alternates and alternates, shall be ten years. (4) The period for further training contained in § 49 para. 2 begins with the entry into force of this law for function holders and functional women.

- (4) The period for further training contained in § 49 para. 2 begins with the entry into force of this Act for functional owners and female function holders. (5) § 34a does not apply to waste disposal facilities which:

