# 6.

- 5. The Ministry of Home Affairs, Building and Sport may, in agreement with the competent lower authority for fire protection and the technical assistance of a municipality, assign certain areas of use on motorways, roadways, waterways and railways, as well as specific tasks in the field of security, in order to ensure the proper performance of fire protection and technical assistance.

- 5. The Ministry of Home Affairs, Building and Sport may, in agreement with the competent lower authority for fire protection and technical assistance of a municipality, assign certain areas of operation on motorways, road, waterways and railways, as well as specific tasks in the field of security, in order to ensure the proper performance of fire protection and technical assistance tasks. (6) The municipalities should examine municipal purchasing cooperation in the form of joint procurements or through a central procurement organisation prior to the procurement of equipment for the fire brigades.

- (6) Prior to the procurement of equipment for fire brigades, the municipalities should examine a municipal purchasing cooperation in the form of joint procurement or through a central procurement organisation. (7) The Ministry of Home Affairs, Building and Sport adopts administrative provisions for the preparation of a demand and development planning with design values for the performance of fire brigades and recommendations for a control equipment of vehicles geared to the risk potential.

- (7) The Ministry of Home Affairs, Building and Sport adopts administrative provisions for the preparation of a demand and development planning with design values for the performance of a fire brigade and recommendations for a standard equipment of fire fighting against the risk potential. - Page 7 of 41 - (8) In the performance of tasks, in particular in the procurement, maintenance and maintenance of installations and equipment, the municipalities can cooperate with other task providers in accordance with § 2 across borders.

- - Page 7 of 41 - (8) In the performance of tasks, in particular in the procurement, maintenance and maintenance of installations and equipment, the municipalities can cooperate with other task providers in accordance with § 2 across borders. § 4 Tasks of the districts, the regional association Saarbrücken and the state capital Saarbrücken in fire protection, in technical assistance and in civil protection (1) The super-territorial tasks of fire protection and technical assistance are performed by the Landkreis and the regional association Saarbrücken.

- § 4 Tasks of the Landkreise, the regional association Saarbrücken and the regional capital Saarbrücken in fire protection, technical assistance and civil protection (1) The local tasks of fire protection and technical assistance are performed by the Landkrei- se and the regional association Saarbrücken. They have to support the municipalities in the procurement of vehicles and equipment of fire protection and technical assistance, the facilities necessary for the local use of fire brigades, the special equipment required for the use in areas of application according to § 3 para. 5 and with necessary construction measures.

- They have to support the municipalities in the procurement of vehicles and equipment of fire protection and technical assistance, the facilities necessary for the super-local use of fire brigades, the special equipment required for use in areas of application according to § 3 para. 5 and necessary construction measures. The super-local tasks of fire protection, technical assistance and catastrophic protection are to be combined organizationally.

- The super-local tasks of fire protection, technical assistance and catastrophic protection are to be combined organizationally. (2) The districts and for the territory of the regional association Saarbrücken the state capital Saarbrücken have

