# 2.

- (3) The Landkreise and, for the territory of the regional association Saarbrücken, the state capital Saarbrücken have to operate continuously-occupied facilities for the acceptance of reports, for the alarming of fire brigades and units of civil protection as well as for the management support in fire protection, in technical assistance and in civil protection (fire brigade intervention centre).

- (3) The districts and, for the territory of the regional association Saarbrücken, the state capital Saarbrücken have to operate permanently occupied facilities for the acceptance of messages, for the alarming of the fire brigades and units of civil protection as well as for the management support in fire protection, in technical assistance and in civil protection (fire brigade intervention center). Mittelstädten can operate in coordination with the district or in the area of the regional association Saarbrücken in coordination with the state capital Saarbrücken for their territory a separate fire brigade operation center.

- In coordination with the Landkreis or in the area of the regional association Saarbrücken, medium-sized cities can operate their own fire brigade headquarters for their territory in consultation with the state capital Saarbrücken. The Landkreise can agree with municipalities that they will do the tasks according to the first sentence for the Landkreis.

- The districts can agree with municipalities that they will take care of the buildings according to the first sentence for the district. Several districts and the state capital Saarbruecken can operate a joint fire brigade operation center.

- Several districts and the state capital of Saarbrücken can operate a joint fire brigade operation centre. The districts and the state capital of Saarbrücken can agree with the carrier of the rescue control centre that they do the tasks according to the first sentence for the county or the state capital of Saarbrücken or the rescue control center is operated together with a fire brigade operation center.

- The Landkreise and the state capital Saarbrücken can agree with the carrier of the rescue control centre that it will perform the tasks according to the first sentence for the district or the state capital Saarbrücken or that the rescue control center will be operated together with a fire department intervention center. (4) After commissioning the integrated control center of the Saarland, it will take over the task of alarming the fire brigades and units of civil protection as well as the task of support in fire protection, in technical assistance and in civil protection for the whole region.

- (4) After commissioning of the Saarland Integrated Control Centre, it will take over the task of alerting fire brigades and units of civil protection as well as the task of providing support in fire protection, technical assistance and civil protection for the whole of the country. § 5 Tasks of the country in fire protection, technical assistance and civil protection (1) The country promotes fire protection, technical assistance and civil protection.

- § 5 Tasks of the country in fire protection, technical assistance and civil protection (1) The country promotes fire protection, technical assistance and civil protection. It supports and advises the municipalities and the community associations in the fulfilment of their tasks.

- It supports and advises the municipalities and the community associations in the performance of their tasks. It promotes standardization and research in the field of fire protection and technical assistance.

- It promotes standardization and research in the field of fire protection and technical assistance. - Page 8 of 41 - (2) The Land maintains the Saarland Fire School.

- - Page 8 of 41 - (2) The Land maintains the Saarland Fire School. (3) The Land, on the basis of a risk assessment, establishes protection targets for dangerous events, from which risks can arise for several counties and the regional association Saarbrücken and which require central defence measures.

- (3) On the basis of a risk assessment, the country shall establish protection objectives for dangerous events, from which risks may arise for several counties and the regional association Saarbrücken and which require the central defence measures. The country shall have a central disaster protection camp, insofar as this goes beyond the tasks of the lower civil protection authorities.

- The country has a central civil protection camp, insofar as this goes beyond the tasks of the lower civil protection authorities. § 6 State Advisory Council for Fire Protection, Technical Assistance and Civil Protection (1) The State Advisory Council for Fire Protection, Technical Assistance and Civil Protection advises the Ministry of Home Affairs, Building and Sports on matters of fundamental importance regarding fire protection, technical assistance and civil protection.

- § 6 State Advisory Council on Fire Protection, Technical Assistance and Civil Protection (1) The State Advisory Council on Fire Protection, Technical Assistance and Civil Protection advises the Ministry of Home Affairs, Building and Sports on matters of fundamental importance in the field of fire protection, technical assistance and civil protection. (2) The State Advisory Council is composed of:

