# 10.000 bis 20.000 Litern. Die Rettungspunkte eignen

- Experience has shown that the sole use of hub-screws with water containers and an oceanic flood to combat forest fire is not very effective, but has a high news value.

- Experience has shown that the sole use of stroke-screws with water tanks and an oceanic flood to fight forest fires is low, but has a high news value. The inefficiency arises from the downwash of helicopters, which contribute to an increased oxygen supply and can cause fires to ignite even more.

- The inefficiency arises from the "downwash" of helicopters, which contribute to an increased oxygen supply and can cause fires to ignite even more. To avoid this, the water discharge from higher altitudes would be necessary, which in turn will result in a finer, more uniform droplet distribution and a reduced extinguishing effect.

- In order to avoid this, the discharge of water from higher altitudes would be necessary, which in turn will result in a finer, more uniform distribution of droplets and a smoother extinguishing effect. In addition, the canopy has a protective protective effect over the mostly occurring ground fires.

- In addition, the canopy has a protective effect on the most common floor fires. An evaporation already in the crowns reduces the already reduced fire-retardant effect.

- An evaporation already in the crowns reduces once again the already reduced fire-retardant effect. a. Alarm plan In principle, Integrated Control Centres (Note) receive messages, control and document them.

- a. Alarm plan In principle, Integrated Control Centres receive, control and document these messages. With the notification of a forest fire at the local competent forest department, the necessary information is exchanged or passed on.

- With the notification of a forest fire at the local competent forest department the necessary information is exchanged or passed on. Within a forest department a developed alarm plan regulates the further procedure and the information flow.

- Within a forest department, a developed alarm plan regulates the further procedure and the information flow. For the alarm chain, the clarification of the communication paths of the respective organizational structures, the exchange of contact data and references to find sites (e.g. website Landesforsten) must be checked regularly.

- For the alarm chain, the clarification of the communication routes of the respective organizational structures, the exchange of contact data and references to find sites (e.g. website Landesforsten) is to be checked regularly. b. Forest fire report Forest fires of any size (especially those larger than 1 hectare) of all forest properties within the meaning of the law are to be notified promptly by e-mail to the central office of the forest administration at: zdf.

- b. Forest fire notification Forest fires of any size (especially those larger than 1 hectare) of all forest types within the meaning of the law must be notified promptly by e-mail to the central office of the forest administration at: zdf. waldschutz@wald-rlp.

- forest protection@wald-rlp. de 38

