# 25.06.25, 21:37

- Codes of conduct in areas at risk of forest fire - Waldwissen. net page 1 of 3 https://www.

- Page 1 of 3 https://www.waldwissen.

- waldwissen. net/de/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/ Behaltenregeln-bei-waldbrand Redaktion Forstliche Versuchs- und Forschungsanstalt Baden-Württemberg URL: /de/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/ Behaltenregeln-bei-waldbrand Behaltenregeln in waldbrandgehte Gebieten Questions about forest fire prevention: What are the legal regulations in areas at risk of forest fire and how do I behave there?

- net/en/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/ Behaltenregeln-bei-waldbrand Redaktion Forstliche Versuchs- und Forschungsanstalt Baden-Württemberg URL: /de/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/ Behaltenregeln-bei-waldbrand Behaltenregeln in waldbrandgehdeten Areaen Questions about forest fire prevention: What are the legal regulations in areas at risk of forest fire and how do I behave there? What do I have to do if, despite everything, a fire breaks out in the forest?

- What do I have to do if, despite everything, a fire breaks out in the forest? Almost all forest fires are caused by negligent human action.

- Almost all forest fires are caused by negligent human action. Since the discarded glimmering cigarette stubble and the reckless use of open fire are the main causes of forest fires, special rules of conduct apply in the forests when dealing with fire.

- Since the discarded glimmering cigarette stubble and the careless handling of open fire are the main causes of forest fires, special rules of conduct apply in the forests when dealing with fire. Through responsible and attentive behavior and action, every forest visitor can contribute to protecting the forest from fires.

- Through responsible and attentive behaviour and action, every forest visitor can help protect the forest from fires. In the regions at risk of forest fire, forest visitors are informed about the topic of forest fire, behavioural information and the current forest fire warning level by means of information boards in recreational areas and at hiking parking spaces.

- In the regions at risk of forest fire, visitors to the forest are informed by information boards in recreational areas and at hiking parking spaces about the topic of forest fire, behavioural information and the current forest fire warning level. The latter are also announced on the Internet at the German Weather Service or in the countries as well as via the local media such as the press and radio.

- The latter are also announced on the Internet at the German Weather Service or in the countries as well as via the local media such as press and radio. At the end of this article links to the forest fire warning stages are listed in Germany and Austria.

- At the end of this article links to the forest fire warning stages are listed in Germany and Austria. Open fire and smoking in the forest Depending on the federal state, the legal regulations regarding the handling of fire in the forest are different.

- Open fire and smoking in the forest Depending on the federal state, the legal regulations regarding the handling of fire in the forest are different.In addition to the state forest laws, special forest fire protection regulations apply in areas at risk of forest fire.

- In addition to the state forest laws, special forest fire protection regulations apply in areas at risk of forest fire. For example, in the forests of Brandenburg and Rhineland-Palatinate there is a year-round ban on smoking in the forests of Baden-Württemberg.

- For example, in the forests of Brandenburg and Rhineland-Palatinate there is a year-round ban on smoking in the forests of Baden-Württemberg. In Mecklenburg-Vorpommern smoking in the forest is permitted only on marked smoking islands.

- In Mecklenburg-Vorpommern smoking in the forest is permitted only on marked smoking islands. The same applies when dealing with open fire.

- The same applies to dealing with open fires. Each federal state has made its own legal regulations here.

- Each state has its own legal regulations here. If the danger of forest fire is very high, entering and driving the forest can be prohibited for the prevention of fires.

- If the danger of forest fire is very high, entering and driving the forest can be prohibited for the prevention of fires. In Brandenburg and Mecklenburg-Vorpommern this can be done from the forest fire warning stage 3.

- In Brandenburg and Mecklenburg-Vorpommern this can be done from the forest fire warning stage 3. An overview of the most important legal regulations on smoking, fire/grilling and entering the forest in the federal states of BW, BB, NRW, MV, RLP, SH and Austria can be downloaded here as a PDF file.

- An overview of the most important statutory regulations on smoking, fire/grilling and entering the forest in the federal states of BW, BB, NRW, MV, RLP, SH and Austria can be downloaded as a PDF file. In addition to the regulations on handling fire, it is also important to keep access to forests free, so that in case of fire, a free access is possible for the fire brigades.

- In addition to the regulations for the handling of fire, it is also important to keep access to forests free, so that in case of fire a free access is possible for the fire brigades. If the car is parked near the forest or in the forest, make sure that the car is not parked on a flammable ground (e.g. dry grass).

- If the car is parked near the forest or in the forest, make sure that the car is not parked on a flammable ground (e.g. dry grass). Fires can be triggered by hot catalysts of the cars.

- Fires can be triggered by hot catalysts of the cars. It is not proven that broken glass can cause forest fires, yet the forest should be kept clean and debris and garbage should not be left behind.

- It is not proven that broken glass can cause forest fires, yet the forest should be kept clean and dirt and garbage should not be left behind. Fig. 1: Warning panel in Mecklenburg-Vorpommern.

- Fig. 1: Warning panel in Mecklenburg-Vorpommern. (Photo: Burts/wikipedia.

- (Photo: Burts/wikipedia. de) Fig. 2: Smoking ban in the forest: different regulations depending on the federal state.

- Figure 2: Smoking ban in the forest: different regulations depending on the federal state. (Assembly: FVA/S.

- (assembly: FVA/S. Haas, forest photo: FVA/H.

- Haas, forest photo: FVA/H. Gössl) 25.06.25, 21:37 Rules of conduct in areas at risk of forest fire - forest knowledge.

- Gössl) 25.06.25, 21:37 Codes of conduct in areas at risk of forest fire - Waldwissen. net page 2 of 3 https://www.

- Page 2 of 3 https://www.waldwissen.

- waldwissen. net/en/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/verhaltenregeln-bei-waldbrand What can and must I do in the event of a forest fire?

- net/en/waldwirtschaft/Schädenmanagement/waldbrand/Behaltenregeln-bei-waldbrand What can and must I do in the event of a forest fire? Everyone is obliged to provide unsolicited assistance in the context of forest fires within the scope of their possibilities.

- Anyone who discovers a forest fire or a fire near the forest can – without putting himself in danger – start with an extinguishing attempt.

- Anyone who discovers a forest fire or a fire near the forest can – without putting himself in danger – start with fire attempts. Here, simple means such as sand or earth help to eject or green branches to spread the fire.

- Here, simple means such as sand or earth help to eject or green branches to spread the fire. With the branches, the flames are swept out in the direction of the fire with even movements.

- With the branches the flames are swept out in the direction of the fire with even movements. But beware: By breaking out of the fire spark flight can arise and the fire by the air supply continue to be inflamed.

- But be careful: by firing the fire spark flight can arise and the fire can be further inflamed by the air supply. If the first control measures have been taken and the fire may have been extinguished, the fire brigade must be informed immediately in any case.

- If the first control measures have been taken and the fire may have been extinguished, the fire brigade must be informed immediately in any case, because leftovers can still glimmer underground and re-ignite the fire.

- Because gluten residues can still glimmer underground and re-ignite the fire. If the fire cannot be extinguished itself, the fire department is to be alerted as quickly as possible.

- If the fire cannot be extinguished itself, the fire brigade must be alerted as quickly as possible.The fire brigade is alerted in Germany via emergency call 112 and in Austria via emergency call 122.

- The fire department is alerted in Germany via emergency call 112 and in Austria via emergency call 122. The following information is important for the fire report: Once the fire department has arrived at the fire site, it will take over the further extinguishing work.

- The following information is important for the fire report: Once the fire brigade has arrived at the fire site, it takes care of the further extinguishing work. You can find out more about the fight against a forest fire in the articles of the section "Forest fire control" in the manual Waldbrand.

- You can find out more about fighting a forest fire in the articles of the "Forest fire control" section in the Waldbrand manual.Links to the forest fire warning levels Literature Guide for Forest Crisis Management Back to the main page of the Forstliches Krisenmanagement: Übersicht der verschiedenen Themensammlung in der: Themensammlung Waldbrand Document info Authors Sandra Collin and Susanne Kaulfuß Editors Forstliche Versuchs- und Forschungsanstalt Baden-Württemberg (/en/we-ueber-uns/redaktion-fva) Contact Network Forest Risk and Crisis Management Forstliches Versuchs- und Forschungsanstalt Baden-Württemberg Forstökonomie und Management Wonnhaldestraße 4 79100 Freiburg Tel: +49 761 4018 231 Fax: +49 761 4018 333 Where is it burning?

- Links to the forest fire warning levels Literature Guide for Forest Crisis Management Back to the main page of the guide for Forest Crisis Management: Overview of the various collections of topics Back to the article overview in the: Themensammlung Waldbrand Document info Authors Sandra Collin and Susanne Kaulfuß Editors Forstliche Versuchs- und Forschungsanstalt Baden-Württemberg (/en/we-ueber-uns/redaktion-fva) Contact Network Forest Risk and Crisis Management Forstliche Versuchs- und Forschungsanstalt Baden-Württemberg Forstökonomie und Management Wonnhaldestraße 4 79100 Freiburg Tel: +49 761 4018 231 Fax: +49 761 4018 333 Where is it burning? – exact location indication, distinctive terrain points (large tree, meadow or rock), fire dimensions

