# 2.

- for civil protection tasks which extend beyond the district of a lower civil protection authority; the second and third sentences of paragraph 1 shall apply mutatis mutandis.

- The second and third sentences of paragraph 1 shall apply mutatis mutandis.

- (3) The Supreme Civil Protection Authority is responsible for civil protection tasks that extend beyond a government district. (4) In the event of a disaster, the higher civil protection authorities or the Supreme Civil Protection Authority may take over the management of disaster control or delegate it to another civil protection authority.

- (4) In the event of a disaster, the higher civil protection authorities or the supreme civil protection authority may take over the management of the disaster control or delegate it to another civil protection authority. § 7 Local responsibility The civil protection authority in whose district a measure is to be implemented is local responsibility.

- § 7 Local competence The civil protection authority is responsible for the local area in which a measure is to be implemented. § 6 para. 4 applies accordingly.

- § 6 para. 4 applies accordingly. § 8 State Advisory Council for Civil Protection (1) The Ministry of the Interior appoints an Advisory Council for Civil Protection, which is to be heard in fundamental issues of civil protection.

- § 8 State Advisory Council for Civil Protection (1) The Ministry of the Interior appoints an Advisory Council for Civil Protection, which is to be heard in fundamental matters of civil protection. The costs are to be borne by the country.

- The costs are borne by the country. The advisory board includes representatives of the local associations, the state organisations of the disaster relief agencies and the state fire brigade association Baden-Württemberg.

- The Advisory Council is composed of representatives of the local associations, the regional organisations of the disaster relief agencies and the Baden-Württemberg fire brigade. (2) The Ministry of the Interior convenes the Advisory Council at its meetings and initiates the negotiations.

- 2. The Ministry of the Interior shall convene the Advisory Council at its meetings and initiate negotiations. The Advisory Council shall meet as necessary or if a quarter of its members so request.

- The Advisory Council shall meet as necessary or if a quarter of its members so request. Representatives of public authorities or organisations, as well as other persons involved in the protection of the cascade, may be consulted.

