# 4. TEIL

- - Page 16 of 25 - Obligations to provide assistance and services § 25 - Obligations of the population to provide assistance (1) Every person over 16 years old is obliged to provide assistance in the fight against disasters and the indirect and consequent temporary elimination of significant damage to the disaster according to his abilities and knowledge if he is asked to do so by the Civil Protection Authority, the technical director of the operation or his authorised representative. (2) The assistance can only refuse who would have to fear unacceptable health damage or violate higher-quality obligations.

- (2) The assistance may only be refused if it would cause an unreasonable loss to health or if it violates higher-quality obligations. (3) Persons who are used to provide assistance or voluntarily provide assistance with the consent of the Katastrophenschutzbehörde, the technical director or his representative in the fight against disasters or the immediate subsequent temporary elimination of significant damage to the disaster shall, for the duration of their assistance, be entitled to the status of helpers of the Civil Protection Service.

- 3. Persons who are used to provide assistance or who voluntarily provide assistance, with the consent of the Katastrophenschutzbehörde, the Technical Director or his authorised representative, in the event of a disaster or the immediate subsequent temporary removal of significant disaster damage, shall, for the duration of their assistance, be entitled to the status of civil protection service helpers. 4. For persons who, at the request of the Civil Protection Authority, participate in exercises of Katastrophenschutz, without being a civil protection service helper, paragraph 3 shall apply mutatis mutandis.

- (4) Paragraph 3 applies to persons who, at the request of the Civil Protection Authority, take part in exercises of the Katastrophenschutz without being a helper of the Civil Protection Service. § 26 Special obligations of members of the professions of the health care (1) The doctors who work in their profession are established on the basis of their professional training obligations under the law on professional law and the chambers of doctors, dentists, veterinarians, pharmacists, psychological psychotherapists as well as of the children and adolescents psychotherapists also continue to apply to the special requirements of assistance in the fight against ca- tastrophs and the immediate subsequent temporary elimination of significant damage to disasters.

- § 26 Special obligations of health professionals (1) On the basis of their professional training obligations under the law on professional law and the chambers of doctors, dentists, veterinarians, pharmacists, psychological psychotherapists as well as children's and adolescents' psychotherapists, doctors, dentists, veterinary surgeons and pharmacists are also required to take part in exercises ordered by the Civil Protection Authority.

- They may be required to take part in exercises ordered by the Civil Protection Authority. The selection of suitable doctors is carried out in consultation with the National Medical Association.

- The appropriate doctors are selected in consultation with the National Medical Association. (2) Insofar as the Civil Protection Authority considers the designation of members of certain groups of members of the Chambers active in their profession to be necessary for purposes within the meaning of § 2 para. 1 No. 2, § 5 para. 2 No. 2 and 3, § 25 and § 26 para. 1 Sentence 2, the National Medical Association and the National Pharmacy Chamber provide the following data:

