# 7.

- Professional title including an extension according to §§ 32, 33 of the Chambers Act. The members of the Chambers are informed of this by the Chambers under reference to the data progress procedure according to sentence 3.

- The members of the Chambers shall be informed thereof by the Chambers, having regard to the progress of the data procedure referred to in the third sentence. The Chambers shall notify the Civil Protection Authority at least annually of any changes and additions to the personal data transmitted to the Katastrophenschutzamt pursuant to the first sentence.

- The Chambers shall notify the Civil Protection Authority at least annually of any changes and additions to the personal data transmitted to the Civil Protection Authority in accordance with the first sentence. The Civil Protection Authority may store, process or otherwise use the personal data transmitted by the Chambers only for purposes within the meaning of § 2 para. 1 No. 2, § 5 para. 2 No. 2 and 3, § 25 and § 26 para. 1 Sentence 2.

- The Civil Protection Authority may only store, process or otherwise use the personal data transmitted by the chambers for purposes within the meaning of § 2 para. 1 No. 2, § 5 para. 2 No. 2 and 3, § 25 and § 26 para. 1 Sentence 2. The data must be deleted if they are no longer required for these purposes.

- The data shall be deleted if they are no longer required for these purposes. (3) For persons who are trained as nursing, X-ray or medical-technical laboratory personnel, the second sentence of paragraph 1 shall apply until the completion of the 65th sentence.

- 3. For persons trained as nursing, X-ray or medical-technical laboratory personnel, the second sentence of paragraph 1 shall apply mutatis mutandis until the age of 65.

- The fourth and fifth sentences of paragraph 2 shall apply mutatis mutandis.

- Paragraph 2, fourth and fifth sentences shall apply mutatis mutandis. § 27 Obligations of the owners of vehicles and equipment; repairs (1) Owners, owners and holders of vehicles of all kinds, towing animals, machines, tools, installations, equipment, equipment and other suitable aids shall tolerate the use of these and their accessories, at the request of the Civil Protection Authority, the technical director of the operation or his representative for the fight against disasters and for the immediate subsequent temporary elimination of significant damage to the disaster.

- § 27 Obligations of owners of vehicles and equipment; repairs (1) Owners, owners and holders of vehicles of all kinds, draught animals, machines, tools, installations, equipment, equipment and other suitable aids shall be required to allow these and their accessories to be used at the request of the Civil Protection Authority, the technical director of the operation or his representative for the purpose of disaster control and for the immediate subsequent temporary elimination of significant damage. (2) Those who normally carry out repairs in their business may be used during a disaster operation in particular for the immediate repair of vehicles, machinery or equipment.

- (2) Those who normally carry out repairs in their business operations can be used during a disaster operation in particular for the immediate repair of vehicles, machines or equipment. They must also supply necessary spare parts and accessories as well as equipment as part of their business operations.

- § 28 Obligations of the owners of land, buildings and ships (1) The owners and owners of land, buildings or ships must tolerate the entry and use of their land, works or ships, to the extent necessary to combat the disaster and for the immediate elimination of significant damage to the disaster.

- § 28 Obligations of the owners of land, buildings and ships (1) Owners and owners of land, structures or ships shall tolerate the entry and use of land, works or ships, insofar as this is necessary for the purpose of combating the disaster and for the immediate subsequent elimination of significant damage to the disaster. (2) Owners and owners of the land, structures and ships affected by a disaster and adjacent to it shall also tolerate measures to be taken by the Civil Protection Authority or by the technical director of the operation or by his representative for the prevention of disasters or for the immediate elimination of significant damage to the disaster, such as the evacuation of land or buildings and the disposal of plants, installations or structures.

- 2. The owners and owners of the sites, structures and vessels affected by a disaster and adjacent to them shall also be required to tolerate measures to be taken by the Civil Protection Authority or the technical director of the operation or his representative for the purpose of combating disasters or for the immediate subsequent elimination of significant damage, such as the evacuation of land or buildings and the disposal of plants, enclosures or structures. (3) The owners and owners of land shall tolerate the installation of warning devices by legal persons under public law without compensation.

- (3) The owners and owners of land shall be required to tolerate the installation of legal persons under public law without compensation. § 29 Obligations of persons present in the disaster area or at the site of operation - page 18 of 25 - All persons present in the disaster area or at a site of operation shall immediately comply with the instructions of the Civil Protection Authority, the technical director of the operation or his agent on evacuation, blocking or securing the disaster area or site of operation.

- § 29 Obligations of persons present in the disaster area or at the site of deployment - page 18 of 25 - All persons present in the disaster area or at a site of deployment shall immediately comply with the instructions of the civil protection authority, the technical director of the operation or his agent on evacuation, closure or security of the disaster area or site of deployment. § 30 Obligations of operators of installations with special risk potential (1) Operators of installations in which the civil protection authority cannot rule out the possibility that a release of the potential danger present in them leads to serious health impairments or the death of a large number of persons not belonging to the service personnel are obliged to provide the civil protection authority, upon request, with appropriate information on the assessment of the effects of a hazard potential release, including the demarcation of the danger area.

- § 30 Obligations of operators of installations with special risk potential (1) Operators of installations in which the Civil Protection Authority cannot rule out the possibility that a release of their existing potential risks leads to serious health impairments or to the death of a large number of people who are not members of the operating staff, are obliged to provide the Civil Protection Authority, upon request, with appropriate information on the assessment of the effects of a risk potential release, including the demarcation of the hazardous area. The Civil Protection Authority may have the information received in the event of an accident with the operator examined at the operator's expense, while respecting operational and business secrets.

- The Civil Protection Authority may, at the operator's expense, have the information received in the undertaking assessed at the operator's disposal, in compliance with operational and business secrets. (2) Operators of installations referred to in paragraph 1 where, following a mandatory assessment by the Civil Protection Authority, the hazard potential can lead to serious health impairments or the death of a large number of non-operators, shall be obliged to assist the Civil Protection Authority in the preparation of disaster prevention and in the fight against disasters.

- 2. Operators of installations referred to in paragraph 1 where, following a mandatory assessment by the Civil Protection Authority, the risk potential may result in serious health impairments or the death of a large number of persons not members of the operating staff shall be obliged to assist the Civil Protection Authority in the preparation of disaster prevention and in the fight against disasters.

