# 2.

- to their expenditure on the establishment, training, equipment and accommodation of the units and facilities of the Civil Protection Service which they are responsible for, provided that they are primarily intended for operations outside their area of responsibility. (2) The country grants contributions to private civil protection contributors within the meaning of § 5 from the health sector to their expenses under § 33 para. 3 and 6.

- (2) The country grants contributions to private civil protection contributors within the meaning of § 5 from the health sector for their expenses under § 33 para. 3 and 6. (3) The country grants grants to the private institutions of civil protection assistance and, where appropriate, to the relevant municipalities and legal entities of fire brigades for their expenditure on the establishment, training, equipment and accommodation of units and facilities of the Civil Protection Service.

- 3. The country shall grant grants to the private institutions of disaster relief and, where appropriate, to the communities concerned and to the authorities of fire brigades in question for their expenditure on the establishment, training, equipment and accommodation of units and facilities of the Civil Protection Service. The promotion of the private institutions of disaster relief by the municipalities and districts shall not be affected.

- 4. The country shall bear all expenses incurred by the authorities or organisations of all specialized services for operations outside the country's borders, if these have been carried out at the order of the highest disaster - page 21 of 25 - protection authority and no other cost replacement has already been carried out.

- 4. The country shall bear all expenses incurred by the authorities or organisations of all specialised services for operations outside the country's borders, if they have been carried out at the request of the highest disaster protection authority - page 21 of 25 - and if they have not already been reimbursed elsewhere. Administrative costs shall not be reimbursed.

- Administrative costs are not reimbursed. Claims arising from the use of the authorities or organisations against third parties are transferred to the country.

- Claims of the authorities or organisations employed against third parties arising from the use are transferred to the country. If, in connection with the cost handling of such use, unreasonable hardships are incurred at the expense of the authorities or organisations employed, further costs can be taken over by the country at the request of the Supreme Civil Protection Authority.

