# 6. Teil

- Management of exceptional situations of use § 35 Exceptional situation of use Exceptional situation of use is an occurrence, the life or health of a large number of people or animals, to a significant extent endangers or damages the environment or significant material values. An exceptional situation of use may also exist, if people are not endangered or damaged in large numbers, but the necessary measures cause a considerable cost of coordination.

- An extraordinary deployment situation may also exist if people are not at risk or damaged in large numbers, but the necessary measures cause a considerable cost-ordination-needed effort. § 36 Exceptional deployment alert (1) The lower civil protection authority determines the time from which an exceptional deployment situation within the meaning of § 35 exists, if and as far as it considers this to be appropriate, and makes this decision known to the affected authorities (exceptional deployment alert).

- § 36 Exceptional deployment alert (1) The lower civil protection authority determines the time from which an exceptional deployment situation within the meaning of § 35 exists, if and to the extent that it considers this to be appropriate, and announces this decision to the affected authorities (exceptional deployment alert). It cancels the exceptional deployment alert if its conditions no longer exist.

- 2. The higher and the highest civil protection authority may take a decision in accordance with paragraph 1 in place of the lower civil protection authority.

- (2) The higher and the highest civil protection authority may take a decision in accordance with paragraph 1 instead of the lower civil protection authority. (3) In the case of a district-wide exceptional deployment situation, the higher civil protection authority shall determine the time from which a district-wide exceptional deployment situation within the meaning of § 35 is available and trigger the district-wide exceptional deployment alert.

- (3) In the case of a district-wide exceptional deployment situation, the higher civil protection authority shall determine the time from which a district-wide exceptional deployment situation within the meaning of § 35 has been established and shall trigger the district-wide exceptional deployment alert. It shall lift it again if its requirements no longer exist.

- (4) In the event of a nationwide exceptional deployment situation, the Supreme Civil Protection Authority shall determine the date from which a national exceptional deployment situation within the meaning of § 35 has been established and shall trigger the national exceptional deployment alert.

- (4) In the case of a nationwide exceptional deployment situation, the Supreme Civil Protection Authority shall determine the time from which a nationwide exceptional deployment situation within the meaning of § 35 has been established and shall trigger the national exceptional deployment alert. It shall cancel it if its requirements no longer exist.

- (5) Civil Protection Service units are obliged to participate in operations in exceptional situations in the same way as in the case of disasters.

- (5) Units of the Civil Protection Service are obliged to participate in operations in exceptional situations as is the case with disasters. § 37 Legal relations of the helpers (1) Sections 12 to 17 apply mutatis mutandis to volunteers of the Civil Protection Service who are used to deal with an exceptional situation at the request of the Civil Protection Authority.

- § 37 Legal relations of the helpers (1) §§ 12 to 17 apply mutatis mutandis to volunteers of the civil protection service who are used to cope with an exceptional situation at the request of the civil protection authority. The obligation according to § 12 paragraph 1 sentence 2 does not apply accordingly, if important reasons conflict.

- The obligation under § 12, paragraph 1, sentence 2 does not apply if there are significant reasons against it. The compensation of loss of earnings is usually limited to the appropriate amount.

- The compensation for loss of earnings is usually limited to the appropriate level. - Page 22 of 25 - (2) An operation within the meaning of the first sentence of paragraph 1 begins with the alarming by the Integrated Control Panel on the initiative of the Civil Protection Authority and ends with dismissal from the operation by the operational management or with the cancellation of the extraordinary intervention alarm.

- - page 22 of 25 - (2) An operation within the meaning of the first sentence of paragraph 1 begins with the alarming by the Integrated Control Panel on the initiative of the Civil Protection Authority and ends with the dismissal from the operation by the operational management or with the cancellation of the extraordinary operation alarm. In individual cases, the Civil Protection Authority may arrange an appropriate subsequent rest period, which is also considered to be the operating time.

- In individual cases, the Civil Protection Authority may order an appropriate subsequent rest period, which is also considered to be an operational period. (3) These provisions shall only apply if and insofar as there are no special regulations, in particular the Fire Brigade Act, the Rescue Service Act or the Police Act.

- (3) These provisions apply only if and insofar as there are no special regulations, in particular the fire brigade law, the emergency service law or the police law. § 38 Management of the operation (1) From the time the lower civil protection authority triggered the extraordinary operational alarm, it can take over the operation management.

- § 38 Management of the operation (1) From the time when the lower civil protection authority triggered the extraordinary intervention alarm, it can take over the operation management. The decision on the takeover or non-acceptance of the operation management must be taken immediately after triggering the exceptional intervention alarm.

- The decision to take over or not to take over the operational management must be taken immediately after triggering the emergency alarm. (2) The competent higher and the highest civil protection authority may take the decision in accordance with paragraph 1 in place of the lower civil protection authority.

- 2. The competent higher civil protection authority and the supreme civil protection authority may take the decision referred to in paragraph 1 in place of the lower civil protection authority. The competent higher civil protection authority and the supreme civil protection authority may take over the operational management themselves or make a further allocation of the operational management to a subordinate civil protection authority.

- The responsible higher and the highest civil protection authority can take over the operational management itself or carry out a further assignment of the operational management to a subordinate civil protection authority. (3) If the civil protection authority has not taken over the operational management in accordance with paragraphs 1 or 2, the regulations of the operational management apply according to the fire service law or service law.

- (3) If the Civil Protection Authority has not taken over the operational management in accordance with paragraphs 1 or 2, the regulations of the operational management in accordance with the Fire Brigade Act or the Retention Service Act shall apply. (4) If the operational management has been taken over by the relevant civil protection authority, it shall be responsible for the instructions in relation to all forces of the fire brigade, the rescue service and those forces involved in the management of the exceptional operational situation, which are used in accordance with § 36 paragraph 5.

- (4) If the operational management has been taken over by the competent civil protection authority, it shall be responsible for the instructions in relation to all the forces of the fire brigade, the emergency service and those forces involved in the management of the exceptional operational situation, in accordance with § 36 paragraph 5. (5) The tasks and powers of other authorities shall remain unaffected.

- 5. The functions and powers of other authorities shall not be affected; in particular, there shall be no power of direction vis-à-vis other authorities.

- In particular, there are no powers of instruction vis-à-vis other authorities. § 39 Charges (1) The costs of loss of earnings, compensation for damage to property and reimbursement of expenses for volunteers, which are incurred in accordance with the first sentence of paragraph 1 of Section 37, shall be borne by the country within the limits of the funds available.

- § 39 Payment of costs (1) The costs of loss of earnings, compensation for damage to property and reimbursement of expenses for volunteers, which are incurred in accordance with the first sentence of § 37 (1), shall be borne by the country within the limits of the funds available. (2) The costs of expenses, in particular through the use, consumption, damage or loss of equipment, of the units of the Civil Protection Service employed in the fight against exceptional situations, shall be borne by the country by the granting of lump sums within the limits of the funds available.

- 2. The costs of expenses, in particular through the use, consumption, damage or loss of equipment, of the units of the Civil Protection Service deployed in the fight against exceptional situations, shall be borne by the country by the granting of lump sums within the limits of the available resources. In individual cases, the country may take over additional expenses in order to avoid unfair hardships.

- In individual cases, the country can take on additional expenses to avoid unfair hardship.The country participates in the costs of such units for their training, training and procurement of personal protective equipment of the volunteers by granting lump sums.

- The country shall contribute to the costs of such units for the training, training and procurement of personal protective equipment of the volunteers by granting lump sums. - Page 23 of 25 - (3) The special provisions of this law shall apply to authorities active in the management of an exceptional situation, as well as to fire brigade and rescue forces.

