# 5.

- as operator of an installation within the meaning of § 30 the obligations under § 30 or § 31 in connection with § 30 para. 2 sentences 1 or 2 No. 1 or 2, despite the invitation by the competent civil protection authority, are not fulfilled in full or not in time. (2) In the cases of paragraph 1 No. 1 and 2, the irregularity may be fined up to EUR 5 000, in the cases of paragraph 1 No. 3 and 4 with a fine of up to EUR 1 500, in the cases of paragraph 1 No. 5 with a fine of up to EUR 15 000.

- (2) In the cases referred to in paragraph 1 (1) and (2), the offence may be fined up to EUR 5 000, in the cases referred to in paragraph 1 (3) and in the cases referred to in paragraph 4 with a fine of up to EUR 1 500, in the cases referred to in paragraph 1 (5) with a fine of up to EUR 15 000.

- (3) The administrative authority within the meaning of § 36 para. 1 no. 1 of the Law on illegality for the prosecution and prosecution of illegal activities under this Act is the Civil Protection Authority. § 41 Restriction of fundamental rights The fundamental rights of physical integrity (Article 2 para. 2 sentence 1 of the Basic Law), the freedom of the person (Article 2 para. 2 sentence 2 of the Basic Law), the freedom of movement (Article 11 of the Basic Law), the freedom of the profession (Article 12 of the Basic Law) and the inviolability of the property (Article 13 of the Basic Law) may be restricted on the basis of this Act.

- § 41 Restriction of fundamental rights The fundamental rights of physical integrity (Article 2 para. 2 sentence 1 of the Basic Law), the freedom of the person (Article 2 para. 2 sentence 2 of the Basic Law), the freedom of movement (Article 11 of the Basic Law), the freedom of occupation (Article 12 of the Basic Law) and the inviolability of housing (Article 13 of the Basic Law) may be restricted on the basis of this Law. § 42 Repeal of legislation (not printed) § 43 Administrative regulations - Page 24 of 25 - The Ministry of the Interior, in agreement with the ministries involved, shall, after consulting the local associations, adopt the administrative regulations necessary for the implementation of this Law.

- § 42 Repeal of legislation (not printed) § 43 Administrative regulations - Page 24 of 25 - The Ministry of the Interior, in agreement with the ministries involved, shall, after consulting the local associations, adopt the administrative regulations necessary for the implementation of this law. If concerns are raised by the institution of disaster relief and commercial enterprises, their national organizations and the Landesfeuerwehrverband Baden-Württemberg shall be consulted.

- As far as concerns are concerned the promoters of the disaster aid and the commercial enterprises, their national organizations and the Landesfeuerwehrverband Baden-Württemberg are to be consulted. § 44 Entry into force * The law enters into force on 1 July 1979.

- § 44 Entry into force * The Act enters into force on 1 July 1979. Footnotes *) This provision concerns the entry into force of the Act in its original version of 24 April 1979 (GBl.

- This provision concerns the entry into force of the Act in its original version of 24 April 1979 (GBl. p. 189).

- Page 25 of 25.

