# 7.

- Arrangements for the immediate information of the forces of other countries and foreign states in the event of a serious accident with possible cross-border consequences. (4) The draft of the external emergency plan and substantial plan changes are from the county administrations, in district-free cities from the city authorities, in the hazardous area of the operation, also taking into account possible domino effects within the meaning of § 15 para. 1 12.

- (4) The draft of the external contingency plan and significant changes to the plan shall be interpreted publicly for the duration of one month by the county authorities, in non-circular cities of the city authorities, in the hazardous area of the operation, even taking into account possible domino effects within the meaning of § 15 para. 1 12. BImSchV.

- BImSchV, to be interpreted publicly for the duration of one month early in order to be heard by the public. Place and place of interpretation shall be made publicly known at least one week before, stating that concerns and suggestions may be raised during the period of interpretation.

- The place and place of interpretation shall be made public at least one week in advance with the indication that concerns and suggestions may be raised during the period of interpretation. The interpretation shall be made using the functional names of the persons covered; other personal data and information in need of secrecy, such as names, private and covert telephone numbers and other communication addresses, shall be disclosed.

- Any other personal data and information in need of secrecy, such as names, private and covert telephone numbers and other communication addresses, shall be disclosed. At the request of the operator or the operator, who is required to submit the draft external emergency plan or a substantial change to the plan at least one week before the notice referred to in the second sentence, unpublished information on the operation shall be disclosed to the public in so far as the interest of the operator outweighs the interest of the public in the disclosure.

- At the request of the operator or the operator to whom the draft external emergency plan or a substantial change to the plan is to be transmitted at least one week before the notification referred to in the second sentence, unpublished information on the operation shall be unidentified, provided that the interest of the operator outweighs the public interest in the disclosure.

- If more than 50 people have expressed concerns and suggestions with essentially the same content, the communication of the result of the examination can be replaced by the fact that these persons are given access to the result.

- If more than 50 people have expressed concerns and suggestions with essentially the same content, the communication of the result of the examination can be replaced by the fact that these persons are given access to the result. The post where the result of the examination can be viewed during the hours of service must be made public.

- The body at which the result of the examination can be viewed during hours of service shall be made public. If the draft of the external emergency plan is amended or supplemented after its design, it shall be re-examined.

- If the draft of the external emergency plan is amended or supplemented after its interpretation, it shall be re-examined; in the re-examination, it may be determined that concerns and suggestions can only be raised with regard to the amended or supplemented parts; this shall be indicated in the re-examination referred to in the second sentence.

- In the new interpretation, it may be stated that concerns and suggestions can only be raised with regard to the amended or supplemented parts; this should be noted in the republished notice in the second sentence. If the amendment or addition of the draft does not affect the broad lines of the statement or if the amendments or additions are minor or of minor importance, a new public interpretation may be waived.

- If the amendment or addition of the draft does not affect the broad lines of the proposal, or if the amendments or additions are minor or minor, a new public interpretation may be waived. (5) The competent authorities shall review, test and, if necessary, revise and update the external contingency plans they have drawn up at appropriate intervals of not more than three years, with the participation of the operator and taking into account the internal contingency plans.

- 5. The competent authorities shall review, test and update the external emergency plans they have drawn up at appropriate intervals of not more than three years, with the participation of the operator and taking into account the internal emergency plans; this review shall take into account changes in the establishments and the task-holders in accordance with § 2 (1), experience from operations and operations, new technical findings and findings on how to act in the event of major accidents.

- This review shall take into account changes in the establishments and the task providers referred to in paragraph 2(1) of this Article, experience gained from operations and operations, new technical knowledge and knowledge on how to act in the event of major accidents. (6) Where another country or another Member State of the European Union can be affected by the cross-border effects of an operation within the meaning of the first sentence of paragraph 1, the county administration, in non-circular cities, shall make available sufficient information to the competent authorities of the countries concerned - page 14 of 51 - and the authorities designated by the other Member State of the European Union, in order to ensure, where appropriate, the provisions of Articles 12 and 14 of Directive 2012/18/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 July 2012 on the control of the risks of major accidents involving dangerous substances, amending and subsequently repealing Council Directive 96/82/EC (OJ L 347, 20.12.2012, p.

- 6. Where another country or Member State of the European Union may be affected by the cross-border effects of an operation within the meaning of the first sentence of paragraph 1, the county administration, in non-circular cities, shall make available to the competent authorities of the countries concerned - page 14 of 51 - and the authorities designated by the other Member State of the European Union sufficient information to enable them, where appropriate, to apply the provisions of Articles 12 and 14 of Directive 2012/18/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 July 2012 on the control of major-accident hazards involving dangerous substances, amending and subsequently repealing Council Directive 96/82/EC (OJ EU No L 197 p. 1), as amended.

- In the case of an establishment situated close to the territory of another country or to another Member State of the European Union, the district administration, in non-circular cities, shall inform the city administration of decisions taken by the authorities designated by the other country or Member State of the European Union in accordance with the fifth sentence of paragraph 1 of this Article.

- In the case of an establishment situated close to the territory of another country or to another Member State of the European Union, the county administration, in non-circular cities, shall inform the municipal administration of decisions taken by the authorities designated by the other country or other Member State of the European Union in accordance with the fifth sentence of paragraph 1. If the other country or Member State of the European Union has not designated the authorities to be involved, the competent authority of the other country or other Member State of the European Union shall be informed.

- If the other country or Member State of the European Union has not designated the authorities to be involved, the competent authority responsible for civil protection in the other country or Member State of the European Union shall be informed. § 5 b External emergency plans for mining waste disposal facilities For the establishment of external emergency plans for waste disposal facilities in category A in the sense of § 22a of the General Federal Mountain Ordinance of 23 October 1995 (BGBl.

- § 5 b External contingency plans for mining waste disposal facilities For the preparation of external contingency plans for waste disposal facilities in category A in the sense of § 22a of the General Federal Mountain Ordinance of 23 October 1995 (BGBl. I p. 1466) and § 6 of the Extraction Waste Ordinance of 27 April 2009 (BGBl.

- I, p. 1466) and § 6 of the Mining Waste Ordinance of 27 April 2009 (BGBl. I, p. 900, 947) as amended, § 5a shall apply mutatis mutandis with the following conditions:

