# 4.

- The aim is to create firearms for children and young people.

- 5. Fire brigades shall use the standard or approved equipment approved or approved by the Ministry responsible for fire and civil protection or by bodies designated by them.

- 5. Fire brigades shall use the standard equipment approved or recognised by the Ministry responsible for fire and civil protection or by bodies designated by them. (6) In order to promote the idea of fire brigades, associations or associations may be set up at the level of municipalities and local authorities.

- (6) In order to promote the idea of fire brigades, associations or associations may be formed at the level of the municipalities and the local community. They may not lead to a name which can lead to confusion with the fire brigade as a common institution.

- They may not lead to a confusion with the fire brigade as a common organisation. (7) At the national level, in the counties and county-free cities, also cross-circuit-wide federations of defence can be formed.

- (7) At the state level, in the counties and in the county-free cities, also cross-circuit feudal associations can be formed. They are to be consulted as representatives of the fire brigades in particular on essential questions concerning the honorary office, the social position of the voluntary fire brigade members, the young people's work, the fire safety education and information and other essential lengths of the fire brigade.

- They are to be consulted as representatives of the fire brigades in particular on essential questions concerning volunteering, the social position of the voluntary fire brigades, the young people's work, fire protection education and education and other important long-term aspects of the fire brigade. § 10 Members of the municipal fire brigades are members of the municipal fire brigades.

