# 2.

- temporarily waive the service during the implementation of a non-obligatory procedure if the remaining service can significantly affect the order of the service or the determination of the facts and the provisional removal of the service is not out of proportion to the importance of the matter. With the termination of the duty, the membership of the fire department ends; a transfer to the age and seniority department is only permitted if the person concerned has applied for the waiver himself or if the obligation was made due to the absence of the physical or mental fitness required for use, if there was no other use with lower requirements.

- With the withdrawal the membership in the fire department ends; a transfer to the age and age department is only permitted if the person concerned has applied for the cancellation himself or if the cancellation was due to the absence of the physical or mental fitness required for use, if there was no other use with lower requirements. § 5 para. 6 and 8 applies accordingly with the condition that the mayor takes the place of the land councillor.

- § 5 para. 6 and 8 shall apply mutatis mutandis with the condition that the mayor replaces the Land Councillor or the Land Councillor. (6) The mayor may, for an important reason, exclude the members of the youth fire brigade and the children's fire brigade from the fire service and, for an important reason, exclude the other honorary official fire brigade members from their function in the fire brigade.

- (6) The mayor may, for an important reason, exclude the members of the youth fire brigade and the child fire brigade from the fire service and, for an important reason, the other honorary official fire brigade members from their function in the fire brigade. Paragraph 5 shall apply mutatis mutandis.

- Paragraph 5 shall apply mutatis mutandis. (7) The mayor or an authorised representative may temporarily release a volunteer firefighter or a volunteer firefighter on request, in particular for professional, health or family reasons, from the duties provided for in Section 13 (1) sentence 2.

- (7) The mayor or an authorised representative may temporarily release a volunteer firefighter or a volunteer firefighter on request, in particular for professional, health or family reasons, from the duties laid down in § 13 para. 1 sentence 2. (8) The members of the age and honorary department may, with the consent of the mayor, who is revocable at any time, take part in exercises and, in individual cases, be used for meetings insofar as they fulfil the necessary health, physical and professional requirements or can be achieved by appropriate arrangements.

- (8) With the consent of the mayor, who is revocable at any time, the members of the old age and honorary department may participate in exercises and be consulted on a case-by-case basis insofar as they fulfil the necessary health, physical and technical requirements or can be obtained by appropriate arrangements. § 13 Legal status of the volunteer firefighters and other volunteer firefighters (1) The volunteer firefighters shall perform a public honorary service for the municipality; for the other volunteer firefighters, this applies to the extent that they carry out military service activities.

- § 13 Legal status of the volunteer firefighters and other volunteer firefighters (1) The volunteer firefighters have a public honorary office for the community; for the other volunteer firefighters this applies insofar as they carry out firefighter service activities.The volunteer firefighters have to participate in ordered or approved missions, exercises, training events, training courses and other firefighters' events and comply with the instructions given there; for the members of the child fire brigade this does not apply and for the members of the youth firefighters only if they participate in missions.

- Volunteer firefighters are required to take part in ordered or approved missions, exercises, training courses, training courses and other firefighter events and to comply with the instructions given there; this is not the case for the children's firefighters and for the members of the youth firefighters only if they participate in missions. Supporters of the children's firefighters, who are not members of the emergency department, do not have to participate in missions, exercises and training arrangements of the emergency department.

- Supporters of the child fire brigade, who are not members of the intervention department, do not have to participate in missions, exercises and training procedures of the intervention department. §§ 20 and 21 GemO apply accordingly; for fire members - page 21 of 51 - who are appointed honorary officers, the regulations of the civil servants law apply instead of §§ 20 and 21 GemO.

- §§ 20 and 21 GemO apply accordingly; for fire members - page 21 of 51 - who are appointed honorary officers, the provisions of the civil servants' law apply instead of §§ 20 and 21 GemO. (2) The volunteer firefighters and other volunteer firefighters, insofar as they carry out fire service activities, may not suffer undue disadvantages by their service in the fire brigade, in particular no disadvantages in the employment, service or training relationship as well as in the social and unemployment insurance; § 18a Abs. 1 and 2 GemO applies accordingly.

- (2) Volunteer firefighters and other volunteer firefighters, insofar as they carry out fire brigade activities, shall not suffer any unreasonable disadvantages due to their service in the fire brigade, in particular no disadvantages in the employment, service or training relationship as well as in the social and unemployment insurance; § 18a para. 1 and 2 GemO shall apply accordingly. During the period of participation in missions, exercises, training courses or other events of the fire brigade at the request of the community, in the case of operations also during the time necessary for the restoration of the working capacity, the duty to work shall be waived for the volunteer firefighters and other volunteer firefighters, insofar as they carry out fire brigade activities; this shall apply to support services for the community or other authorities outside the statutory area of responsibility of the fire brigade only if no job risks can arise.

- During the period of participation in operations, exercises, training courses or other events of the fire brigade at the request of the municipality, including during the time necessary for the restoration of working capacity, the duty to perform work is waived for the volunteers and other volunteer firefighters, insofar as they carry out fire service activities; this applies to support services to the municipality or other authorities outside the statutory area of responsibility of the fire brigade only if this does not pose any job risks. Workers are obliged to continue for this period to pay wages, training allowances and other allowances, including all ancillary benefits, allowances and contributions to social security contributions and to the Federal Employment Agency and to all voluntary employment services, including proportional participation in profits, other gratifications and contributions for occupational pensions, which would normally have been achieved without the periods of absence.

- Employees are obliged to continue to pay wages, training allowances and other allowances for this period, including old-age benefits, allowances and contributions to social security and to the Federal Employment Agency, as well as all voluntary employment benefits, including proportional participation in profits, other gratifications and contributions for occupational pension schemes, which would normally have been obtained without the downtime. Private employers are replaced by the amounts paid on request by the municipality on the basis of statutory, collective or contractual obligations and voluntary contributions; public employees have no entitlement to compensation.

- Private employers shall be replaced by the amounts paid voluntarily by the municipality on application by virtue of statutory, collective or contractual obligations; public employees shall not be entitled to compensation. The municipalities may grant a supplement to private workers by statute.

- The local authorities may grant a supplement to the private employer by virtue of the articles of association.Sixth and fifth sentences apply mutatis mutandis to benefits under the continuing payment of remuneration Act of 26 May 1994 (BGBl I, p.

- The fourth and fifth sentences apply mutatis mutandis to benefits under the continuing payment law of 26 May 1994 (BGBl I, p. 1014, 1065) as amended and other benefits within the meaning of the third sentence, if the incapacity for work is due to the service in the fire department.

- 1014, 1065), as amended, and other benefits within the meaning of sentence 3, if incapacity for work is due to service in the fire department. Applications under sentences 4 and 6 shall be made within six months of termination of the exemption; in the case of incapacity for work lasting more than six months, the application shall be made without delay after termination of the incapacity for work.

- Applications under the fourth and sixth sentences shall be made within six months of the termination of the exemption; in the event of incapacity for work lasting more than six months, the application shall be made without delay after the termination of the incapacity for work. If the volunteer firefighters and other volunteer firefighters, in so far as they carry out fire service activities, can claim damages as employees on the basis of statutory provisions of third parties because of the loss of earnings arising from the incapacity for work, the municipality shall be obliged to refund them in accordance with the fourth and sixth sentences only if the employer or the employer assigns this claim to the same extent that he or she has passed on to them or him by virtue of law or contract or is transferred from the worker to the employer; the transfer of claims cannot be claimed to the detriment of the workers.

- If the volunteer firefighters and other volunteer firefighters, in so far as they carry out fire service activities, claim damages as employees on the basis of the statutory provisions of third parties because of the loss of earnings arising from the incapacity for work, the municipality shall be obliged to reimburse them in accordance with the fourth and sixth sentences only if it assigns the employer or the worker to the same extent that he or she has transferred to him or her by virtue of law or contract or has transferred him or her from the worker to the employer; the transfer of claims cannot be made to the detriment of the workers. (3) Volunteer firefighters and other volunteer firefighters, in so far as they carry out fire service activities, shall, at the request of the municipality, be entitled to replace the credible amounts of default due to the periods of absence which the employer cannot compensate, in particular in the event of the absence of tax exemption for Sunday, holiday or night work.

- (3) Where voluntary firefighters and other voluntary firefighters, in so far as they carry out fire service activities, arise because of the downtime disadvantages which the workers cannot compensate, in particular in the event of the abolition of the tax exemption of the surcharges for Sunday, public holiday or night work, the municipality shall, upon application, replace the credible amounts of default. Volunteer firefighters or other honorary official firefighters, in so far as they carry out fire service activities which escape the service in the fire service of the Federal Agency for Labour or other insurance, social assistance or other assistance or remuneration from public funds, the municipality shall, upon application, replace the credible amounts of default.

- In the case of voluntary firefighters or other honorary official firefighters, in so far as they carry out firefighter service activities which escape the services of the Bundesagentur für Arbeit or other insurance companies, social assistance or other support or remuneration from public funds, the municipality shall, upon application, replace the amounts of the declared defaults. (4) If voluntary firefighters and other voluntary firefighters are exempted from work for the duration of a working day, the working time corresponding to that working day shall be taken into account for the duration of the working day.

- 4. Where, in the case of a voluntary fire brigade member and other voluntary fire brigade members, in so far as they are engaged in military service activities, voluntary fire brigade members and other voluntary fire brigade members are exempted from work for the duration of a working day, the fixed working time allocated to that working day and, in the case of sliding working time, the core working time applicable to that working day shall be counted.

- From - page 22 of 51 - deviating from sentence 1 the average working time for this day shall be counted on the basis of the average weekly working time if the volunteer firefighters and other volunteer firefighters, in so far as they carry out military activities, are unable to determine the date for the exercise of the honorary service themselves. If the duration of the necessary absence does not include a whole working day, the downtime caused by the fire brigade service will be counted even during the gliding time to the limit of the average working time for that day, if the honorary official firefighters and other volunteer firefighters, in so far as they carry out military activities, make it credible that they had worked without the fire service at that time.

- If the duration of the necessary absence does not exceed a full working day, the downtime caused by the fire service will also be taken into account during the gliding time up to the maximum limit of the average working time due to this day, if the honourable official firefighters and other volunteer firefighters, insofar as they carry out fire service activities, prove that they would have worked without fire service at that time. The same applies if the work is delayed due to participation in meetings, exercises, training courses or other events of the fire service at the request of the fire brigade, in the case of operations also due to the time necessary for the restoration of the working capacity.

- The same applies if the work is delayed due to participation in meetings, exercises, training courses or other events of the fire brigade at the request of the authorities, in the case of operations also due to the time necessary to restore the working capacity. (5) Paragraphs 2 to 4 apply mutatis mutandis to officials.

- 5. Paragraphs 2 to 4 shall apply mutatis mutandis to officials. By way of derogation from the second sentence of paragraph 2, workers, officers and officials performing tasks of direct security, in particular full-time or full-time members of professional or factory fire brigades, police enforcement officers, judicial enforcement officers and rescue workers, shall have a right of exemption only to the extent that the execution of urgent full-time or full-time duties is not a priority.

- By way of derogation from the second sentence of paragraph 2, workers, officials who perform tasks of direct defence, in particular full-time or full-time members of professional or factory fire brigades, police enforcement officers, judicial officers and workers in the rescue service, shall have a claim for exemption only to the extent that the execution of urgent full-time or full-time duties is not a priority. The municipality shall, prior to the participation of such persons in exercises, courses or other fire brigade events, obtain agreement with the workers, service masters or service masters, which may only be refused if urgent reasons for service conflict; a fundamental prohibition of participation in exercises, courses and other fire brigade events is not permitted.

- Prior to the participation of such persons in exercises, courses or other firefighting events, the municipality must reach agreement with the workers, service masters or service masters, which may only be refused if urgent reasons for service conflict; a fundamental prohibition of participation in exercises, training courses and other firefighting events is not permitted. (6) Participation in exercises, training courses or other events of the fire brigade, which should take place at the request of the community during working hours, must be communicated without delay to the workers, service masters or service masters by the volunteers and other volunteer firefighters, insofar as they carry out firefighting activities.

- (6) Participation in exercises, training courses or other events of the fire brigade, which are to be carried out at the request of the community during working hours, shall be communicated without delay by the volunteers and other volunteer firefighters, insofar as they carry out fire service activities, to the employer, servant or servant. Exercises and other events of the fire brigade shall be carried out outside the usual working hours.

- Exercises and other events of the fire brigade should be carried out outside the usual working hours. Exceptions are only possible after an individual balance of interests with the interests of the workers.

- Exceptions are only possible after an individual balance of interests with the interests of the workers. (7) Volunteer firefighters and other volunteer firefighters, as far as they carry out fire service activities which are not in a service or employment relationship, the loss of earnings on request in the form of a lump sum hourly amount is replaced.

- (7) Volunteer firefighters and other volunteer firefighters, to the extent that they carry out military service activities which are not in a service or employment relationship, shall be replaced by the loss of earnings on application in the form of a lump sum of hours. (8) Volunteer firefighters and other volunteer firefighters, to the extent that they carry out military service activities, shall be entitled to compensation for their required expenses.

- (8) Volunteer firefighters and other voluntary firefighters, in so far as they carry out military activities, are entitled to the replacement of their necessary expenses. Volunteer firefighters and other voluntary firefighters, in so far as they carry out military activities, which are constantly used for special services, have instead a replacement according to sentence 1 the right to an appropriate compensation for expenses.

- Volunteer firefighters and other volunteer firefighters, insofar as they carry out fire service activities, which are constantly used for special services, are entitled instead of a replacement fee according to sentence 1 to appropriate compensation for expenses. Sentence 2 applies to recourse to operations in which expenses have been paid pursuant to § 36, and for recourse to security guards pursuant to § 33 or other regulations accordingly; for recourse to other operations, the municipality may grant compensation for expenses.

- The second sentence shall apply to the use of operations in which expenses have been paid pursuant to § 36, and to the use of security guards in accordance with § 33 or other provisions; for the use of other operations, the municipality may grant compensation for expenses. Proven costs for the care of children or dependent dependants shall be replaced upon request, provided that a paid care during the absence of the household or during a work incapacity due to illness caused by the fire service is required; care costs shall not be replaced for periods in which, in accordance with paragraphs 2, 5 - page 23, 51 - and 7 of remuneration or remuneration or loss of earnings are continued.

- The costs of caring for children or dependants in need of care shall be replaced upon request, provided that such care is not required for periods of absence from the household or during incapacity for work due to illness caused by the fire service; care costs shall not be replaced for periods in which, in accordance with paragraphs 2, 5 - page 23 of 51 - and 7 of remuneration or remuneration or loss of earnings are continued or replaced. Volunteer firefighters and other volunteer firefighters, in so far as they carry out fire service activities, which during the recreational leave are subject to training periods of more than one day in particular to the State Office of Fire and Disaster Protection or to comparable facilities, or for this purpose are entitled to recreational leave or leisure compensation of more than one working day, shall be entitled to adequate compensation for expenses incurred by a firefighter who is found to be justified by average remuneration or other income of the last three months before the rest or leisure compensation, provided that the main service is not otherwise regulated by the voluntary service of a firefighter, or of a person who is subject to voluntary service.

- Volunteer firefighters and other volunteer firefighters, in so far as they carry out military service activities which, during recreational holidays, take courses of more than one day's duration, in particular at the State Office for Fire and Civil Protection or at comparable facilities, or who take advantage of recreational holidays or leisure compensation of more than one working day, are entitled to reasonable compensation for expenses which can be attributed to the credible average remuneration or other income of the last three months before the rest or leisure compensation, unless otherwise provided for in the main sentence; the same applies where it is held that another person is entitled to rest or leisure compensation for the support of children of a volunteer firefighter or a volunteer firefighter, one or other volunteer firefighter, in so far as he or she engages in military service activities.

- Pupils and students are freed from participation in the training and training courses during their participation in missions and for a reasonable period thereafter; in the case of courses during the lecture-free period at the State Office for Fire and Civil Protection or a similar institution, an appropriate compensation shall be paid. The municipality may grant further advantages to the volunteer firefighters and other volunteer firefighters, insofar as they carry out fire service activities, in particular in the use of municipal facilities or in the context of an honorary card; § 94 para. 2 GemO shall not apply.

- The municipality may grant further advantages to the volunteer firefighters and other volunteer firefighters insofar as they carry out fire service activities, in particular with regard to the use of municipal facilities or in the context of an honorary card; § 94 para. 2 GemO does not apply. The further details, in particular the amount of the compensation, determine the main sentence.

- (9) The municipalities are obliged to:

