# 3.

- after consultation of the Wehrleiter or the Wehrleiter, in local communities also the Wehrführer or the Wehrführer. § 12 para. 5 sentence 1 applies accordingly.

- § 12 para. 5 sentence 1 applies accordingly. § 15 Werkfeuerwehr, Selbsthilfekräfte (1) The Landesamt für Brand- und Katastropheschutz may require companies and institutions with increased fire or explosion risk or other special dangers after consultation to establish a correspondingly efficient Werkfeuerwehr with full-time or part-time relatives, to equip, maintain and provide for the training and further training of the members of the Werkfeuerwehr with the equipment and the necessary structural installations and facilities.

- § 15 Werkfeuerwehr, Selbsthilfekräfte (1) In order to prevent and combat such dangers, the Landesamt für Brand- und Katastropheschutz may require companies and facilities with increased fire or explosion risks or other special risks after consultation to establish a correspondingly efficient Werkfeuerwehr with full-time or ancillary personnel, to equip, maintain and provide for the training and further training of the members of the Werkfeuerwehr. The Werkfeuerwehr performs public tasks of fire protection and general assistance.

- The fire brigade performs public tasks of fire protection and general assistance. The obligation must be withdrawn if the conditions for this no longer exist.

- The obligation must be withdrawn if the conditions for this no longer exist. - Page 27 of 51 - (2) § 10 sentence 2 and § 12 paragraph 1 sentence 1 and section 4 apply to members of a fire brigade.

- - page 27 of 51 - (2) § 10 sentence 2 and § 12 paragraph 1 sentence 1 and § 4 shall apply to members of a fire brigade. (3) Organization, equipment and training of the fire brigade must take account of the special requirements of the company.

- (3) The organisation, equipment and training of the fire brigade must take account of the special requirements of the company; members of the fire brigade must be members of the plant or body for which the fire brigade has been set up; the State Office for Fire and Civil Protection may, upon request, allow exceptions to the requirement of the fire brigade if it is ensured that no restriction of the performance of the fire brigade is to be feared and the parties concerned shall, by public agreement with the State Office for Fire and Civil Protection, take the necessary measures.

- The members of the fire brigade must be members of the factory or facility for which the fire brigade has been set up; the State Office for Fire and Civil Protection may, upon request, allow exceptions to the requirement of the service train if it is ensured that there is no risk of a limitation in the performance of the fire brigade, and the parties concerned shall, by public agreement with the State Office for Fire and Civil Protection, take the necessary measures. In addition to the necessary professional qualifications, the members of the fire brigade must have knowledge, in particular, of the location, the production and operation processes, the operational hazards and protection measures and the special means of use.

- In addition to the necessary professional qualifications, the employees of the fire brigade must have in particular knowledge of the location, the production and operation processes, the operational hazards and protective measures and the special means of use. (4) The fire brigade may use the fire brigade in consultation with the operating management for assistance outside the company, provided that the safety of the operation is not significantly endangered.

- 4. If the safety of the plant is not significantly endangered by the operation, the operator may use the fire brigade in consultation with the management of the plant to provide assistance outside the plant. The mayor or the mayor and the land councillor may also use the fire brigade outside the plant in agreement with the management of the plant.

- The mayor or the mayor and the land councillor may, in agreement with the management of the plant, also use the fire brigade outside the plant. The management must, at the request of the company, reimburse the costs incurred by the training or operational measures.

- 5. For accommodation establishments, boarding schools, hospitals and similar health care facilities, construction facilities for the purpose of care and care with more than 100 beds, the institution must appoint self-help personnel.

- 5. For accommodation establishments, boarding schools, hospitals and similar health care facilities, construction facilities for the purpose of care and care with more than 100 beds, the institution shall appoint self-help personnel. 6. The establishments or facilities shall bear the costs of the fire brigade and self-help personnel.

- (7) Self-help workers voluntarily set up by enterprises or institutions may, at the request of the county administration, in county-free cities by the city administration, be admitted as a factory fire brigade if they fulfil the conditions laid down in paragraphs 2 and 3; the counties and county-free cities shall carry out the task as a matter of order.

- (7) Self-help workers voluntarily set up by enterprises or institutions may, at the request of the county administration, in county-free cities by the city administration, be admitted as a fire brigade if they fulfil the conditions laid down in paragraphs 2 and 3; the counties and county-free cities shall carry out the task as a matter of order. (8) The State Office for Fire and Civil Protection may, in agreement with the municipality, authorise a joint fire brigade for businesses or areas of operation if the participating enterprises make the necessary arrangements by means of a public agreement with the State Office for Fire and Civil Protection.

- (8) The State Office for Fire and Civil Protection may, in agreement with the municipality, authorise a joint fire brigade for operations or areas of operation if the relevant operations take the necessary measures by public agreement with the State Office for Fire and Civil Protection. (9) The performance of the fire brigade and the self-help personnel referred to in paragraph 5 may be reviewed at any time.

- (9) The performance of the fire brigade and the self-help personnel referred to in paragraph 5 may be reviewed at any time. This task is carried out by the district administration, in non-circular cities by the municipal administration; the districts and non-circular cities carry out the task as an assignment.

- This task is carried out by the county administration, in non-circular cities by the municipal administration; the districts and the non-circular cities assume the task as an assignment matter. § 16 Fire-fighter's badges A fire-fighter's badge awarded by the Prime Minister or the Prime Minister is donated for the appreciation of achievements in the field of fire-fighting.

- § 16 Fire Department Honorary Signs In order to appreciate services in the field of fire department, a fire department Honorary Mark is created, which is awarded by the Prime Minister or the Prime Minister. She or he may delegate this authority to the Minister, who is responsible for fire and civil protection.

- It may delegate this power to the Minister responsible for fire and civil protection. Third Section - page 28 of 51 - Assistance organizations in general assistance § 17 Participation and tasks of the relief organizations (1) The municipal authorities shall, in order to carry out their tasks in general assistance to the fire brigade, as far as they consider it necessary, set up public and private aid organisations, in particular the Workers' Samaritan Association.

- Section 3 - Page 28 of 51 - Support organizations in general assistance Section 17 Participation and tasks of relief organizations (1) The municipal authorities set up the German Life Rescue Society (Deutsche Lebens-Rettungs-Gesellschaft e.V.) to carry out their tasks in general assistance to the extent they consider it necessary, public and private aid organizations, in particular the Arbeiter-Samariter-Bund e.V.

- V., the Deutsche Lebens-Rettungs-Gesellschaft e. V., the Deutsche Rote Kreuz e.

- V., the German Red Cross e. V., the Johanniter-Unfall-Hilfe e.

- V., Johanniter-Unfall-Hilfe e. V., Malteser-Hilfsdienst e.

- V., the Maltese Aid Service and the Technical Assistance Agency, if these organizations have generally agreed to participate.

- V. and the Technical Assistance Agency, if these organizations have generally agreed to participate. (2) The tasks of the aid organizations in the participation in the general assistance are governed by the respective organisational regulations.

- (2) The tasks of the aid organizations in the participation in the general assistance are governed by the respective organizational regulations. § 18 Legal status of the helpers of the aid organizations (1) Subject to other legal provisions, the rights and obligations of the helpers only exist vis-à-vis the aid organization to which they belong.

- § 18 Legal status of the helpers of the aid organizations (1) Subject to other legal provisions, the rights and obligations of the helpers only exist vis-à-vis the aid organization to which they belong. Unless the organization's own regulations provide otherwise, the regulations for volunteers firefighters apply accordingly.

- Unless the organization's own regulations provide otherwise, the regulations for voluntary fire brigade members apply accordingly. (2) The legal relations between the public-law aid organizations of the federal or other countries and their helpers remain unaffected.

- (2) The legal relationships between the public-law aid organizations of the federal or other countries and their helpers remain unaffected. Section 4 Civil Protection Units and Facilities § 19 Civil Protection Units and Facilities (1) The districts and non-circular cities primarily use the public and private units and facilities of civil protection to fulfil their tasks in civil protection.

- Section 4 Civil Protection Units and Facilities § 19 Civil Protection Units and Facilities (1) In order to fulfil their civil protection tasks, the districts and non-circuitary cities primarily use public and private civil protection units and facilities. (2) Civil Protection units and bodies are established by legal persons governed by public law.

- 2. Public units and civil protection bodies shall be provided by legal persons governed by public law. Private units and civil protection bodies shall be provided by the private aid organisations if they have made themselves generally available for participation in the task and are suitable, if there is a need for participation and if they have agreed to the participation of the actors.

- Private civil protection units and bodies shall be provided by the private aid organisations if they have generally declared themselves ready to participate in the task and if they are appropriate, if there is a need for participation and if they have agreed to participate. (3) Civil protection units and bodies shall be set up in particular for the following areas:

