# 10.

- Psychosocial emergency care. § 20 Helpers in civil protection Helpers in civil protection are persons who work in units and facilities of civil protection.

- § 20 Helpers in civil protection Helpers in civil protection are persons who are active in units and facilities of civil protection. They commit themselves to the relief organization, in the case of units according to § 4 para. 2 towards the task manager, for participation in civil protection, unless their obligation to cooperate results from their membership in the relief organization.

- They undertake to cooperate in civil protection with the relief organisation, in the case of units in accordance with § 4 para. 2, insofar as their obligation to cooperate does not already result from their membership in the relief organisation. § 18 applies accordingly with regard to the legal status of the helpers in civil protection.

- In terms of the legal status of the helpers in civil protection, § 18 applies mutatis mutandis.The fifth section Health sector § 21 Cooperation in the health sector (1) The task leaders work with the medical organizations, hospitals, pharmacies as well as with the Landesärztekammer Rheinland-Pfalz, the Landeszahnärztskammer Rheinland-Pfalz, the Lan despsychotherapeutenkammer Rheinland-Pfalz, the Landespfalzskammer Rheinland-Pfalz, the Landesabothekskammer Rheinland-Pfalz and correspond to the bodies at regional level (professional representatives of the members of the health professions).

- 5th Section Health sector § 21 Cooperation in the field of health (1) The responsible authorities shall cooperate with the medical organizations, hospitals, pharmacies as well as with the Landesärztekammer Rheinland-Pfalz, the Landeszädtekammer Rheinland-Pfalz, the Lan despsychotherapeutenkammer Rheinland-Pfalz, the Lan destierärztekammer Rheinland-Pfalz, the Landesapothekerkammer Rheinland-Pfalz and correspond to the bodies at regional level (professional representatives of members of the health professions). (2) The alert and operational plans and external emergency plans referred to in § 3 para. 1 sentence 1 No. 3, § 4 para. 1 No. 4, § 5 para. 1 No. 4 and §§ 5a, 5b and 6 No. 1 shall be included in the places referred to in paragraph 1 if necessary.

- (2) In the alarm and emergency plans and external emergency plans according to § 3 para. 1 sentence 1 No. 3, § 4 para. 1 No. 4, § 5 para. 1 No. 4 and §§ 5a, 5b and 6 No. 1 the places mentioned in paragraph 1 shall be included, if necessary. (3) The districts and county-free cities ensure a sufficient supply of medical material for major hazards.

- (3) The counties and non-circular cities shall ensure adequate supplies of medical material for major hazards, using, if necessary, a central purchasing body set up by a county administration, and in cooperation with the professional representatives of health professionals and in consultation with the Ministry of Health, they shall determine the nature and scope of the necessary medical material.

- If necessary, they will use a central procurement body set up by a county administration and, in cooperation with the professional representatives of health professionals and in consultation with the Ministry responsible for health affairs, determine the nature and scope of the necessary sanitary material. § 22 Participation of hospitals (1) The hospitals' institutions are obliged to establish and update alarm and operational plans for their hospitals for participation in fire protection, general assistance and civil protection, which are in line with the alarm and operational plans of the municipalities and districts - page 30 of 51 - and to carry out exercises.

- § 22 Participation of hospitals (1) The institutions of hospitals are obliged to draw up and update alarm and emergency plans for their hospitals, which are in line with the alarm and emergency plans of the municipalities and districts - page 30 of 51 - and to carry out exercises. Neighbouring hospitals must support each other and coordinate their alarm and emergency plans.

- Neighbouring hospitals must support each other and coordinate their alarm and deployment plans. (2) The emergency and deployment plans of the hospitals must also take into account the support opportunities provided by the established doctors and relief organisations.

- (2) The emergency and emergency plans of the hospitals shall also take into account the possibilities of assistance provided by the doctors established and the relief organisations. (3) The emergency and emergency plans of the hospitals shall also include measures to create emergency-related treatment capacities within the hospital area.

- (3) The emergency and emergency plans of hospitals also include measures to create emergency-related treatment capacities within the hospital area. (4) The Ministry responsible for health affairs may require the hospital authorities and other appropriate bodies to include emergency hospitals or facilities where at least care can be provided to patients in their alarm and emergency planning.

- (4) The Ministry responsible for health matters may require hospital wards and other appropriate bodies to include auxiliary hospitals or such facilities where at least care can be provided to patients in its alarm and operational planning. § 23 Special obligations of health care professionals (1) Doctors, dentists, psychotherapists, veterinarians, pharmacists and professionals working in their profession as well as medical and veterinary assistants are obliged, within the framework of general assistance and disaster protection, to continue training for the special requirements and, at the request of the Head of Operations or the Head of Operations, in the cases of Section 24(4) on the orders of the Mayor or of the Mayor or a person appointed by him, to take part in ordered or approved operations, exercises, courses or other training courses and to comply with the instructions given there; § 27(2) shall apply mutatis mutandis.

- § 23 Special obligations of health professionals (1) Physicians and doctors, dentists, psychotherapists, veterinarians, pharmacists and professionals working in their profession, as well as medical and veterinary assistants, are obliged, within the framework of general assistance and civil protection, to continue training for this purpose and to comply with the special requirements, as well as with the instructions given by the Head of Operations, in the cases of Section 24(4) at the request of the Mayor or any person appointed by him, in ordered or approved operations, exercises, courses or other training events; § 27(2) applies mutatis mutandis. (2) The professional representatives of health professionals (§ 21(1)) are responsible for their area of activity for the persons referred to in paragraph 1, for their further training and for providing the authorities with the information they require to implement this law.

- (2) The professional representatives of health professionals (§ 21 para. 1) are responsible for their field of activity for the persons referred to in paragraph 1, provide for their further training and provide the authorities with the information they need for the implementation of this law. (3) Persons no longer employed in their profession who are trained in a profession of health or veterinary surgeon may voluntarily declare themselves ready to cooperate in general aid and civil protection with the responsible authorities; § 27 para. 2 applies accordingly.

- (3) Persons who are no longer employed in their profession who are trained in a profession of health or veterinary surgeons may voluntarily declare themselves ready to cooperate in general aid and civil protection with the responsible authorities; § 27 para. 2 applies accordingly. (4) The provisions of the Seventh Section (sections 26 to 30) remain unaffected.

- (4) The provisions of the Seventh Section (§§ 26 to 30) remain unaffected. Sixth Section Operations Management § 24 Operations Management (1) The Operations Management has

