# 2.

- by radio, television, warning apps and similar applications for mobile devices, timings or other means of communication, provided that a local public announcement is not possible or is not sufficient in the given circumstances. (5) The suspensive effect of opposition and contestation proceedings shall be waived in the case of irresponsible orders and measures of the operational manager and the persons mentioned in paragraph 3 in the case of operations to ward off dangers according to § 1 para. 1; this shall also apply in the cases of § 27 para. 1 and 3, § 28 para. 1 and § 29 in the case of operations.

- (5) The suspensive effect of an objection and an action for contestation shall be waived in the case of irresponsible orders and measures of the Chief of Operations and of the persons referred to in paragraph 3 in the case of operations aimed at the prevention of dangers according to section 1 (1); this shall also apply in the cases of section 27 (1) and (3), section 28 (1) and section 29 in the case of operations. Seventh section Obligations of the population, compensation § 26 Hazard notification Anyone who notices a fire or any other event causing serious danger to humans or significant material value shall be obliged to report this immediately to the police, the fire brigade or any other relevant body.

- 7th section Obligations of the population, compensation § 26 Hazard notification Anyone who notices a fire or any other event that endangers human beings or significant material values is obliged to report this immediately to the police, the fire brigade or any other relevant body. Anyone who is requested to transmit a hazard notification is obliged to do so within the scope of his possibilities, if the requesting person is unable to notify the danger itself.

- Anyone who is requested to transmit a hazard report is obliged to do so within the limits of his possibilities, if the applicant is unable to notify the danger himself. § 27 Obligations to provide assistance (1) Each person over 18 years old is obliged to provide assistance in the context of his knowledge and skills, at the request of the Chief of Operations, in the cases of § 24(4) of the Mayor or of one of the Mayors, in order to avert immediate risks from the individual person or the general public or to remedy significant damage.

- § 27 Obligations to provide assistance (1) Every person over 18 years of age is obliged to provide assistance within the framework of his or her knowledge and skills, in the cases of § 24 (4) of the mayor or of one of the mayors, in order to prevent immediate dangers from the individual person or the general public or to eliminate significant damage. The assistance can only refuse to provide assistance if he or she has to fear a significant risk or violate other important duties.

- The assistance can only be refused by those who would have to fear a significant risk or violate other important duties. (2) Persons who are obliged to provide assistance or voluntarily provide assistance with the consent of the operations leader or the operational manager in the fight against danger or the immediate elimination of significant damage, have the status of assistants of the aid organizations for the duration of their assistance (§ 18).

- (2) Persons who are obliged to provide assistance or voluntarily provide assistance with the consent of the operating officer or the operations manager in the fight against danger or the immediate elimination of significant damage shall have the status of assistants of the aid organizations for the duration of their assistance (§ 18). § 13 para. 2 to 8 and 9 nos. 1 and 3 and para. 10 shall apply accordingly.

- § 13 paras. 2 to 8 and 9 nos. 1 and 3 and para. 10 apply accordingly. (3) On the order of the Chief of Operations, in the cases of § 24 para. 4 of the citizen's majority or the mayor or a person commissioned by this or this person, - page 33 of 51 -

