# 3.

- In the case of large-scale evacuations, accommodation facilities or other suitable building facilities for short-term accommodation of evacuated persons, including the personnel and facilities necessary for the operation, shall be provided by the owners, owners and other users, including their agents and agents.

- Several debtors who are obliged to make it available are jointly and severally liable. Benefits may only be requested if the need cannot be covered in any other way or can not be covered in time or only by disproportionate means.

- Services may only be requested if the need cannot be met in a different way, or cannot be met in time or only with disproportionate resources. The requirement must be limited to the essential level.

- All requirements shall be designed and carried out in such a way that no natural or legal person concerned develops avoidable night eggs.

- All requirements shall be designed and carried out in such a way that no natural or legal person concerned develops avoidable night eggs. The life requirements of the affected natural persons must be guaranteed.

- The living needs of the affected natural persons must remain assured. Living spaces which are necessary for the indispensable living needs of the owner and the persons belonging to his household must not be requested.

- Living rooms which are necessary for the indispensable living requirements of the owner and the persons belonging to his household status may not be requested. § 2 para. 1 and 2 and §§ 4, 12 and 13 para. 1 of the Federal Service Act of 19 October 1956 (BGBl.

- § 2 para. 1 and 2 and §§ 4, 12 and 13 para. 1 of the Federal Performance Act of 19 October 1956 (BGBl. I p. 815) as amended shall apply mutatis mutandis.

- 815) in the current version, the assistance can only be used to prove who would have to fear a significant risk or violate other important obligations.

- The assistance can only be used to prove who would have to fear a significant risk or violate other important duties. (4) The service providers are entitled to pre-record persons with special knowledge or skills in providing assistance as well as aids pursuant to the first sentence of paragraph 3, consumables pursuant to the second sentence of paragraph 3, accommodation facilities, construction facilities and facilities for the short-term accommodation of evacuated persons referred to in paragraph 3, first sentence, point 3; the relevant natural and legal persons, associations of persons as well as the owners, owners and owners or other users are obliged to provide the necessary information and to notify changes.

- 4. Task-holders shall be entitled to pre-record persons with special knowledge or skills in providing assistance as well as aids referred to in paragraph 3, first sentence, No. 1, consumables referred to in paragraph 3, first sentence, No. 2, accommodation facilities, buildings and facilities for short-term accommodation of evacuated persons referred to in paragraph 3, first sentence, No. 3; the natural and legal persons, associations of persons concerned, owners, owners and owners or other users shall be obliged to provide the necessary information and to notify changes accordingly. (5) Paragraph 2 shall apply to persons who voluntarily participate in exercises with the consent of the Chief of Operations.

- (5) Paragraph 2 shall apply mutatis mutandis to persons who voluntarily participate in exercises with the consent of the Chief of Operations or the Chief of Operations. § 28 - Page 34 of 51 - Obligations to tolerate (1) Owners, owners or other authorized users of land, construction installations or ships in the field of operation, in individual areas of operation or in their vicinity are obliged to defend against imminent or already occurring danger or to remedy significant damage

