# 2.

- 5. The right to compensation shall expire in three years from the date on which the victim or the victim becomes aware of the damage, regardless of the date on which he or she becomes aware of the occurrence of the injurious event in thirty years.

- 5. The right to compensation shall expire in three years from the date on which the injured person or persons becomes aware of the damage, regardless of the date on which the damage occurred in thirty years. The right of recourse referred to in paragraph 3 shall expire in thirty years from the date on which the claim for compensation is recognised or legally established.

- The right of recourse referred to in paragraph 3 shall expire in thirty years from the date on which the claim for compensation is recognised or legally established. (6) For claims for compensation, the ordinary course of action is provided, and for claims for recourse pursuant to paragraph 3, the administrative right is granted.

- (6) In the case of claims for compensation, the ordinary legal course is the right of appeal, and in the case of claims for recourse pursuant to paragraph 3, the administrative procedure is provided. Eighth Section Preventive Hazard Protection § 31 Prevention of Hazards (1) All persons shall, in particular when handling fire, combustible, explosive, toxic or other harmful substances and electrical equipment in such a way that people and significant material values are not endangered.

- Eighth Section Preventive Hazard Protection § 31 Prevention of Hazards (1) All persons, especially when dealing with fire, combustible, explosive, toxic or other harmful substances and with electrical devices, shall be so liable that humans and significant material values are not endangered. Existing hazards have to be eliminated if they are reasonable.

- (2) Owners, owners, owners or other authorized users of building installations which are particularly dangerous to fire or explosion, or which, in the case of a fire, explosion or other dangerous event, may endanger a greater number of people or significant material values in the case of - page 36 of 51 -, shall be obliged to assist the operators in the preparatory measures for fire protection, general assistance and catatrophic protection, in particular with regard to alarm and operational planning and exercises, as well as in the defence of security and to advise them on the appropriate measures to combat them.

- (2) Owners, owners or other authorized users of building installations which are particularly hazardous to fire or explosion, or which, in the case of - page 36 of 51 - a fire, explosion or other dangerous event, may endanger a greater number of people or significant material values, are obliged to assist the operators in preparatory measures of fire protection, general assistance and catastrophic protection, in particular in the planning of alarms and operations and in exercises, as well as in the defence of security and to advise on the appropriate measures to combat them. They may, insofar as there is no corresponding obligation under other legislation, be obliged by the competent authority in accordance with § 32 para. 2 to prevent or combat fires, explosions and other dangerous events at their own expense, in particular:

