# 2.

- other institutions which have to perform tasks under this law, in accordance with the budget of national funds. The income from the fire protection tax may only be used to promote preventive and counter fire protection.

- The revenue from the fire protection tax may only be used to promote preventive and counter fire protection. (4) The country shall bear the costs of operations in other federal states and abroad, which are not covered by the budget, if the operation was ordered or approved by the Ministry responsible for fire and civil protection.

- (4) In accordance with the budget, the country shall bear the costs not borne by other bodies for operations in other federal states and abroad if the operation was ordered or approved by the Ministry responsible for fire and civil protection. § 35 Costs of private aid organisations, contributions from the country The private aid organizations shall bear the costs incurred by their participation under this law.

- § 35 Costs of the private aid organizations, contributions from the country The private aid organizations bear the costs incurred by them as a result of their participation under this law.The municipal authorities reimburse the private aid organizations on payment of the costs incurred or incurred by them during ordered or approved operations, exercises and other events; the amount of compensation for the helpers depends on the regulations for the volunteer firefighters.

- The municipal authorities shall reimburse the private aid organisations on payment of the costs incurred or incurred by them during operations, exercises and other events ordered or approved; the amount of compensation for the helpers shall be determined by the regulations applicable to the volunteers. Furthermore, the country shall grant grants to the expenditure incurred by the private aid organisations through their participation under this law in accordance with the budget.

- In addition, in accordance with the budget, the country grants grants to the expenditure incurred by private aid organisations through their participation under this law, in particular for the procurement and maintenance of civil protection equipment, for the establishment and maintenance of the necessary building facilities and for the training of the helpers.

- The grants are granted in particular for the procurement and maintenance of civil protection equipment, for the construction and maintenance of the necessary construction facilities as well as for the training of the helpers. § 36 Cost replacement (1) The task-holders can use the service notice to claim cost replacement for the costs incurred by the fire brigade and the aid organizations as well as the intervention measures, whereby § 94 para. 2 GemO does not apply:

