# 3.

- Other necessary costs and expenses arising from the use, in particular: (a) for fees paid in the context of the contractual use of third parties necessary to ensure effective security, (b) for the use of special extinguishing and special means of use, and (c) for the repair or replacement of vehicles or equipment damaged during the use. (7) The flat-rate personnel costs for volunteers can be calculated on the basis of the average gross wage amounts of workers determined by the Federal Statistical Office, plus a supplement for general costs (in particular for costs of medical examination, travel expenses compensation, training and training costs, service and protective clothing, contributions to statutory accident insurance, supplementary insurance according to § 13 para. 9 no. 2, liability insurance and legal protection insurance), which may not exceed 10 % of the average gross wage amount, as well as a supplement for compensation for expenses under § 13 para. 8 sentence 3.

- (7) The flat-rate personnel costs for volunteers may be calculated on the basis, in particular, of the average gross wage amounts of workers determined by the Federal Statistical Office, plus a supplement for overhead costs (in particular, for costs of medical examination, travel expenses, training and training costs, service and protective clothing, contributions to statutory accident insurance, supplementary insurance under § 13 para. 9 no. 2, liability insurance and legal protection insurance), which may not exceed 10 % of the average gross wage amount, and a supplement for the compensation of expenses under § 13 para. 8 sentence 3. If personnel costs beyond this are to be determined in the statutes, the actual employment costs related to the staff shall be determined over a period of at least two years; the determination shall be repeated at intervals of no more than five years.

- If staff costs beyond that laid down in the statutes are to be determined, the actual operating costs related to the staff shall be determined over a period of at least two years; the determination shall be repeated at intervals of not more than five years. (8) For the flat-rate personnel and material costs of full-time staff, Section 2 of the Land Ordinance on the fees for general acts (General Registration of Fees) of 8 November 2007 (GVBl.

- (8) Section 2 of the Land Ordinance on the fees for official acts of a general nature (General Registration of Fees) of 8 November 2007 (GVBl. p. 277, BS 2013-1-1) applies to the flat-rate personnel and material costs of full-time personnel as amended, unless otherwise provided for in paragraph 6, fourth sentence.

- 9. For the calculation of hourly rates for fire brigades and other operational vehicles charged in addition to the personnel costs referred to in paragraphs 7 and 8, the following shall be taken into account when calculating the hourly rates for fire brigades and other operational vehicles:

