# 6.

- contrary to § 31 para. 3 the storage or processing of goods and materials with special fire, explosion or other danger does not indicate, not completely or not in time to the municipal administration or does not provide the necessary information about the special features of the warehousing or processing goods. (2) Infringement of the order also acts, who deliberately or knowingly contrary to § 26 does not report or transmit a fire or any other danger.

- (2) Any person who deliberately or knowingly does not notify or transmits a fire or any other danger shall also act contrary to § 26. (3) The irregularity may be punished with a fine of up to ten thousand euros, in the cases of Absatzes 1 No. 1 up to two hundred and fifty euros.

- (3) The irregularity can be punished with a fine of up to ten thousand euros, in the cases of Absatzes 1 No. 1 up to two hundred and fifty euros. Eleventh section Additional provisions § 38 Exercises on Sundays and public holidays As far as it is necessary to achieve the exercise goal, exercises for fire protection, general assistance and civil protection can also be carried out on Sundays and public holidays.

- Eleventh Section Additional Provisions § 38 Exercises on Sundays and public holidays As far as it is necessary for the achievement of the exercise goal, exercises for fire protection, general assistance and civil protection can also be carried out on Sundays and public holidays. § 39 Processing of personal data for the purposes of fire and civil protection - page 46 of 51 - (1) To the extent necessary for the performance of the following tasks in particular, the authorities and bodies responsible for carrying out these tasks, the aid organisations and the other bodies referred to in the fifth section may process personal data, in particular for the following purposes:

