# 2.

- In addition, personal data may also be transmitted to authorities and bodies entrusted with the performance of tasks, in particular in accordance with § 1 (1), without request, if the knowledge of these data is necessary for the performance of their tasks, the tasks cannot be performed with anonymised data and the interest in the transmission of the data significantly outweighs the interest of the data subject in excluding the transmission.

- Furthermore, personal data may also be transmitted without request to authorities and bodies entrusted with the performance of tasks, in particular in accordance with § 1 (1), if the knowledge of these data is necessary for the performance of their tasks, the tasks cannot be performed with anonymised data and the interest in the transmission of the data significantly outweighs the interest of the data subject in the exclusion of the transmission. (4) Content and connection data of calls or messages received via telephone number 112 or other emergency call facilities may be recorded without the knowledge of the data subject.

- (4) Content and connection data of calls or messages received via telephone number 112 or other emergency call facilities may be recorded without the knowledge of the data subject. Furthermore, a recording of the content and connection data is only permitted if this is necessary in the individual case for the performance of tasks; the recording should be referred to.

- Furthermore, a record of the content and connection data is only permitted if this is necessary in the individual case for the performance of tasks; the record should be referred to. To improve the procedure or for scientific purposes, the records may be used if the personal data contained therein have been anonymised.

- In order to improve procedures or for scientific purposes, the records may be used if the personal data contained therein have been anonymised. - Page 47 of 51 - (5) The records stored by the control centre in accordance with § 7 RettDG or any other body that receives reports of fire or other dangers are usually to be deleted after six months, unless longer storage is exceptionally required for the establishment, exercise or defence of legal claims in a criminal, administrative, civil or administrative procedure.

- - page 47 of 51 - (5) The records stored by the control centre in accordance with § 7 RettDG or any other body which receives reports of fire or other dangers shall normally be deleted after six months, unless, exceptionally, longer storage is required for the establishment, exercise or defence of legal claims in criminal, administrative, civil or administrative proceedings. (6) The data protection provisions of this law shall not apply, insofar as the law of the European Union, in particular Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data, on the free movement of data and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation) (OJ L 347, 31.12.2016, p.

- (6) The data protection provisions of this Act shall not apply to the extent that the law of the European Union, in particular Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data, on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation) (OJ EU No L 119, 1 ), as amended, directly applies.

- 1) in the current version, directly applicable. Reference is made to the supplementary provisions of the National Data Protection Act.

- The additional regulations of the Landesdatenschutzgesetz are referred to. § 39 a Use of unmanned aeronautical systems The use of unmanned aeronautical systems by the fire brigades and the aid organizations or under supervision of the responsible authorities is in particular:

