# 5.

- Twelfth Section Supervision § 41 State Supervision (1) The supervision of the municipal authorities is governed by the provisions of the Act and the Landkreisordnung.

- Twelfth Section Supervision § 41 State Supervision (1) The supervision of the municipal authorities is governed by the provisions of the Gemeindeordnung and the Landkreisordnung. (2) By way of derogation from § 118 para. 1 sentence 1 and para. 2 GemO, the district administration as the lower authority of the general state administration and the upper supervisory authority is the supervisory and service directorate for large towns and cities.

- (2) By way of derogation from § 118 para. 1 sentence 1 and para. 2 GemO, the district administration as the lower authority of the general state administration, the upper supervisory authority is the supervisory and service directorate for large towns and cities. § 42 Technical supervision of the private aid organizations (1) The private aid organizations are subject to the supervision of the district administration, in non-circuit cities of the city administration in their participation in civil protection; the districts and the non-circular - page 49 of 51 - the cities fulfil this task as an obligatory task of self-administration.

- § 42 Supervision of the private aid organizations (1) The private aid organizations, in their participation in civil protection, are subject to the supervision of the district administration, in non-circular cities of the city administration; the districts and the non-circuit - page 49 of 51 - the cities fulfil this task as a mandatory task of self-government. The supervision extends to the legality and expedientity of the execution of the tasks.

- The supervision shall cover the legality and expediency of the performance of the tasks. 2. Private aid organisations shall be consulted before a supervisory measure is taken.

- (1) The Ministry responsible for fire and civil protection is authorized to adopt more detailed regulations by means of a legal regulation on:

