# 10.

- the nature and scope of the events in which a security guard is required, the obligation to register these events and the deadline for registration, the obligation to allow the security guard and to comply with the orders made within the framework of the security guard (§ 33). (2) In the cases referred to in paragraphs 1 to 8 and 9, the legal regulations shall be issued in agreement with the Ministry responsible for health affairs and with the Ministry responsible for the affairs of the economy, in the case referred to in paragraph 1 to 9 also with the Ministry responsible for the environment.

- (2) In the cases referred to in paragraph 1 (8) and (9), the regulations shall be adopted in agreement with the Ministry responsible for health affairs and with the Ministry responsible for economic affairs, in the case referred to in paragraph 1 (9), also with the Ministry responsible for environmental affairs. (3) The Ministry responsible for health affairs shall be authorised to regulate, by law, in agreement with the Ministry responsible for fire and civil protection, the details of the alarm and emergency plans of hospitals (section 22 (1)).

- (3) The Ministry responsible for health matters is authorized, in agreement with the Ministry responsible for fire and civil protection, to regulate by law the details of the alarm and operational plans of hospitals (§ 22 para. 1). (4) The Ministry responsible for fire and civil protection shall adopt the administrative provisions necessary for the implementation of this Act in agreement with the relevant Ministry of Health concerned.

- (4) The Ministry responsible for fire and civil protection shall adopt the administrative provisions necessary for the implementation of this Act in agreement with the relevant Ministry of Industry. § 44 Transitional provisions (1) The regulations and administrative provisions pursuant to the Land Act on Fire Protection and Technical Assistance (BrandSchG) of 27 June 1974 (GVBl.

- § 44 Transitional provisions (1) The regulations and administrative provisions under the Land Act on Fire Protection and Technical Assistance (BrandSchG) of 27 June 1974 (GVBl. p. 265, BS 213-50) remain in force until new provisions have been adopted, unless they conflict with the provisions of this Act.

- 265, BS 213-50), in so far as they do not conflict with the provisions of this law, until new provisions have been adopted. To the extent that these laws or administrative provisions refer to provisions which have been repealed by this law, the corresponding provisions of this law shall apply.

- In so far as these laws or administrative provisions refer to provisions which have been repealed by this law, the corresponding provisions of this law apply. (2) Voluntary executives who hold a voluntary management function on 1 July 2005, for which an election procedure is required from that date in accordance with § 5 para. 3 sentence 2 or 3 or § 14 para. 1 sentence 4, shall remain until the end of 31 December 2014, but at the latest until the completion of 63.

- (2) On 1 July 2005, honorary executives who have a voluntary management function for which an election procedure is prescribed in accordance with § 5 para. 3 sentence 2 or 3 or § 14 para. 1 sentence 4 from that date shall remain in office until the end of 31 December 2014, but at the latest until the age of 63; re-election shall be permitted.

- The term of office is renewable. § 12 para. 1 sentence 2 applies mutatis mutandis.

- § 12 para. 1 sentence 2 applies mutatis mutandis. § 45 Entry into force This law enters into force on 1 January 1982.

- § 45 Entry into force This law enters into force on 1 January 1982. - page 51 of 51

