# 3.

- - page 5 of 51 - (2) This law shall apply only to the extent that the prevention of hazards referred to in paragraph 1 is not guaranteed by other legal provisions and in particular the use of fire brigades or auxiliary organisations is required.

- - Page 5 of 51 - (2) This law applies only to the extent that the prevention of dangers pursuant to paragraph 1 is not guaranteed by other legal provisions and in particular the use of the fire brigade or the auxiliary organizations is required. (3) §§ 15 and 33 shall not apply to installations and facilities of the Bundeswehr, the water and shipping administration of the Bun- des und der Bundespolizei.

- (3) Sections 15 and 33 do not apply to installations and facilities of the Bundeswehr, the water and shipping administration of the Federal Police and the Federal Police. (4) Fire protection, general assistance and civil protection are based on the self- and neighbourhood assistance capacity of the population and supplement these with measures required in the public interest.

- (4) Fire protection, general assistance and civil protection are based on the ability of the population to provide self- and neighbourhood assistance and supplement these with measures required in public interest. Third-party legal claims are not justified by the provisions of this law; § 30 remains unaffected.

- Legal claims of third parties are not justified by the provisions of this law; § 30 remains unaffected. § 2 Task Carriers (1) Task Carriers are:

