# 4.

- the country for the central tasks of fire protection, general assistance and catastrophic protection as well as for the tasks of preventive protection of danger under this law. (2) The municipalities and counties fulfil their tasks as compulsory tasks of self-government.

- (2) The municipalities and districts fulfil their duties as compulsory tasks of self-administration. In the case of local municipalities, the tasks assigned to the municipalities under this law are the "Verbandsgemeinden" according to the municipal regulations.

- In the case of local communities, the tasks assigned to the municipalities in accordance with this law are entrusted to the "Verbandsgemeinden" (Verbandsgemeinden) in accordance with the regulations of the municipality. The central tasks of the country are performed by the "Landesamt für Brand- und Katastrophenschutz" (State Office for Fire and Civil Protection).

- The central tasks of the country are carried out by the State Office for Fire and Civil Protection. (3) The authorities and other bodies in their respective areas whose interests are affected shall be involved in the performance of their tasks under this law.

- (3) The authorities and departments of the country, as well as those responsible for the supervision of the country, shall assist the authorities and other bodies in their respective fields, whose interests are affected. (4) The authorities and departments of the country, as well as those responsible for the supervision of the country, shall, in addition to their responsibilities and administrative assistance, assist those responsible in the preparation and implementation of measures for the prevention of threats within their limits, unless priority is given to the performance of urgent tasks of their own.

- (4) The authorities and departments of the country, as well as those responsible for the supervision of the country, should, in addition to their responsibilities and administrative assistance, assist the authorities and departments in the preparation and implementation of measures for the prevention of threats within the framework of their capabilities, unless urgent tasks are priority. (5) The authorities and departments of the country and those responsible for the supervision of the country should not require the voluntary fire brigade, aid organisations or units and agencies of civil protection to assist in the performance of their own tasks, in particular within the framework of administrative assistance, if this prevents voluntary fire brigades, helpers of the aid organizations or government units (§ 4 para. 2) from carrying out their full-time or full-time duties.

- (5) The authorities and departments of the country, as well as those responsible for the supervision of the country, should not require the voluntary fire brigade, aid organisations or units and agencies of civil protection to assist in the performance of their own tasks, in particular in the context of mutual assistance, if this does not prevent voluntary firefighters from carrying out their full-time or full-time duties. Support to the police is only permitted insofar as the activity does not require the exercise of police powers and the firefighters, helpers and helpers of the aid organizations or of government units are not exposed to any special risks; in particular, firefighters - page 6 of 51 - may not intervene in the rights of third parties.

- Support to the police is only permitted insofar as the activity does not require the exercise of police powers and the firefighters, helpers and helpers of the aid organizations or government units are not exposed to any special risks; in particular, firefighters - page 6 of 51 - may not interfere with the rights of third parties in this regard. (6) Public and private workers should assist the task-holders in carrying out measures to prevent threats within the scope of their possibilities, in particular by exempting volunteers from firefighters, helpers of aid organizations and government units (section 4(2)) for operations, exercises, training or other facilities of firefighters, aid organisations or civil protection at the request of the task-holders or the aid organizations assigned to them, unless priority is given to the fulfilment of urgent tasks of the defence of danger and provision of life.

- (6) Public and private workers should assist the task-holders in the implementation of measures for the prevention of dangers within the scope of their possibilities, in particular by exempting volunteers from fire brigade members, helpers from relief organizations and government units (§ 4 para. 2) for operations, exercises, training courses or other events of fire brigade, relief organisations or civil protection at the request of the task-holders or the aid organizations they commission, unless the fulfilment of urgent own tasks of security and general interest is a priority. The recipients ensure that the interests of private and public workers worthy of protection are as little affected as possible and coordinate as far as possible with the workers involved in the identification of possible impairments.

- The recipients shall ensure that the interests of the private and public workers are as little affected as possible and shall agree as far as possible with the workers in charge of identifying possible impairments. (7) Public and private workers may undertake to become security partners of the fire brigade and civil protection with the result of mutual close cooperation and support in the performance of their duties under this law. Within the framework of this agreement, cooperation in the exemption pursuant to paragraph 6, first sentence, may be regulated and agreed upon in particular, which persons are not normally available at work for exceptional reasons and therefore for tasks of fire brigades, aid organisations or government units (§ 4(2)), which require immediate leave of the workplace, in particular for operations, while working hours are not immediately available in principle.

- (7) Public and private employees may undertake to become security partners of the fire brigade and civil protection with the consequence of mutual close cooperation and support in the performance of their duties under this law by means of a public-law contract. Within the framework of this agreement, cooperation may be regulated in particular with regard to the exemption provided for in paragraph 6, sentence 1, and can be determined by mutual agreement, which persons, for exceptional reasons, are not available in the workplace and therefore for tasks of fire brigades, aid organisations or government units (§ 4 paragraph 2), which require immediate exit of the workplace in particular for operations, while working hours are generally not immediately available. § 3 Tasks of municipalities in fire protection and in general assistance (1) The municipalities have to carry out their tasks in fire protection and general assistance (§ 1 para. 1 and 2, § 2 para. 1 no. 1)

