# 6.

- To take other measures necessary for the effective prevention and control of hazards, in particular to carry out exercises. The facilities and installations designated in accordance with § 48 para. 1 sentence 2 No. 2 of the Landeswassergesetz as well as their operation are part of the public water supply; they are therefore not covered by sentence 1 No. 1.

- The facilities and facilities designated in accordance with § 48 para. 1 sentence 2 No. 2 of the Landeswassergesetz as well as their operation are part of the public water supply; they are therefore not covered by sentence 1 No. 1. Special consideration must be given to the interests of the local communities; as a rule, local fire brigade units must be established.

- Special consideration must be given to the needs of the local communities; as a rule, local fire brigade units must be set up. (2) The municipalities must provide each other free of charge at the request of the operational management (§ 24), provided that the safety of the requested municipality is not significantly endangered by the assistance provided; this also applies if the responsible responsible officer orders the precautionary use of the fire brigade and the relief organizations, in particular in the case of large-scale operations where an effective security or medical guard alone cannot guarantee an effective defence against danger, and requests mutual assistance for this purpose.

- (2) The municipalities must provide each other free of charge at the request of the operational management (§ 24) provided that the safety of the requested municipality is not significantly endangered by the assistance provided; this also applies if the responsible task- ers order the precautionary use of the fire brigade and the relief agencies, in particular in the case of large-scale operations, in which an effective security guard alone cannot guarantee effective security by means of a fire safety or medical guard, and request mutual assistance for this purpose. The supervisory authority may, in case of specific hazards in consultation with the mayor, order the assistance provided even if the safety of the requested municipality is temporarily not guaranteed.

- The supervisory authority may order assistance in case of special hazards in consultation with the mayor, even if the safety of the requested municipality is temporarily not guaranteed. § 4 Tasks of the district-free cities in civil protection (1) The district-free cities have to fulfil their tasks in civil protection (§ 1 para. 1 no. 3, § 2 para. 1 no. 3)

