# 5.

- 2. Insofar as the units and installations to be provided in accordance with paragraph 1 (1) cannot be provided by public or private aid organisations, the county-free city shall set up the necessary units and facilities on its own initiative (directing units) in order to carry out the tasks.

- 2. Insofar as the units and installations to be provided in accordance with paragraph 1 (1) cannot be provided by public or private aid organisations for the performance of the tasks, the county-free city shall establish the necessary units and facilities in its own direction (directing units) whose helpers shall have the status of volunteer firefighters.

- Their helpers have the legal status of volunteer firefighters. (3) § 3 applies, with regard to paragraph 2 also in relation to the counties, accordingly.

- (3) § 3 applies, with regard to paragraph 2 also in relation to the counties, accordingly. (4) The district-free cities use themselves for the fulfilment of their tasks in the alarming and maintenance support in fire protection, in the general aid and in the civil protection of a guide post according to § 7 of the Rescue Service Act (RettDG) as amended on 22 April 1991 (GVBl.

- (4) The non-circular cities use themselves for the fulfilment of their tasks in the alarming and support of fire protection, in the general assistance and in the civil protection of a guidance unit according to § 7 of the Rescue Service Act (RettDG) as amended on 22 April 1991 (GVBl. p. 217, BS 2128-1) as applicable.

- 217, BS 228-1) as amended. (5) § 5 para. 4 and 5 shall apply mutatis mutandis.

- (5) § 5 para. 4 and 5 apply mutatis mutandis. § 5 Tasks of the counties in fire protection, in general aid and in civil protection (1) The districts have to fulfil their tasks in fire protection, in general aid and in civil protection (§ 1 para. 1, § 2 para. 1 no. 2 and 3)

