# 3.

- The references to §§ 27 and 40 para. 3 and 4 of the municipal order (Ge- mO) are replaced by the references to §§ 20 and 33 para. 3 and 4 of the district order (LKO). - Page 10 of 51 - For the volunteers mentioned in the sentences 2 and 3, § 10 sentence 2, § 12 para. 1, 4 and 8, § 13 para. 1 sentence 2 half sentence 1 and sentence 4 and para. 2 to 11 apply with the condition that instead of the references to § 18a para. 1 and 2 and §§ 20 and 21 GemO the references to § 12a para. 1 and 2 and §§ 14 and 15 LKO take place and instead of the mayor the land council decides.

- - Page 10 of 51 - § 10 sentence 2, § 12 para. 1, 4 and 8, § 13 para. 1 sentence 2 half sentence 1 and sentence 4 and para. 2 to 11 apply to the volunteers referred to in the sentences 2 and 3 with the condition that the references to § 18a paragraphs 1 and 2 and § 20 and 21 GemO are replaced by the references to § 12a paragraphs 1 and 2 and §§ 14 and 15 LKO and that instead of the mayor the Landratin or the Landrat decides. § 49 and 116 LBG apply accordingly to all volunteers.

- Sections 49 and 116 of the LBG apply mutatis mutandis to all volunteers. (4) In consultation with the private aid organisations involved in civil protection, the Land Councillor or the Land Councillor appoints senior emergency doctors as well as organizational directors in charge of fire and civil protection inspectors.

- 4. In consultation with the private relief organisations involved in civil protection and the fire and civil protection inspector or the fire and civil protection inspector, the Landratin shall appoint senior emergency doctors as well as organisational directors. These shall be appointed honorary officers; paragraphs 3, 6 and 7 shall apply mutatis mutandis.

- These are to be appointed as honorary officers; paragraphs 3, 6 and 7 shall apply mutatis mutandis. The required persons may also be required to enter into contracts of service or employment with the agreement of the local council; sentence 2 shall not apply in this case.

- The necessary persons may also be required to enter into service or employment contracts with the agreement of the district council; sentence 2 shall not apply in this case. (5) The district councillor may be the volunteer fire and civil protection inspector or the volunteer fire and civil protection inspector and his honorary representatives, the district youth fire service officer or the district youth fire service officer and their representatives, the honorary leaders of emergency doctors and emergency doctors, the honorary organizers, the circuit instructors and circuit instructors as well as the voluntary circuit equipment waiters and district equipment station officers.

