# 2.

- In the case of minor misdemeanours, which only slightly affect the confidence of the superior or the general public in the conduct of the duties, the Land Councillor or the Land Council may also give a written rebuke to a particular conduct (referral) during the execution of a non-obligatory procedure temporarily waive the service if remaining in the service can materially affect the order of the service or the determination of the facts and the provisional removal of the service is not out of proportion to the importance of the matter.

- - page 11 of 51 - (6) In the case of minor service offences which only marginally affect the confidence of the superior or the general public in the conduct of duties, the Land Councillor or the Land Council may also give a written rebuke to a particular conduct (referral). Any misrepresentation (referrals, admonitions, reprimands and the like) which is not expressly referred to as a reference are not measures in the context of a referral or dispensation procedure.

- No action shall be taken within the framework of a referral or abstention procedure. (7) Before the voluntary representations of the fire and civil protection inspector or the fire and civil protection inspector, the district fire service officer or the district fire service officer and their representations, the circuit instructors and the voluntary circuit equipment maintenance officers shall be heard by the fire and civil protection inspector or the fire and civil protection inspector.

- (7) Before the voluntary representations of the fire and civil protection inspector or of the fire and civil protection inspector, the district fire service officer or the district fire service officer and their representations, the circuit instructors and the volunteer circuit equipment waiters shall be heard by the fire and civil protection inspector or the fire and civil protection inspector. Before the voluntary directors of emergency doctors and the honorary director of the organization, the civil protection officers shall be consulted by the relief organizations, as far as the person concerned does not contradict the intended hearing.

- Prior to the dismissal of the honorary senior emergency doctors and the honorary director of the organisation, the aid organizations should be consulted in the event that the person concerned does not object to the intended hearing. The service relationship with the district ends with the disobedience.

- The service relationship with the district ends with the disobedience. (8) A reprimand or a disobligation for important reasons is pronounced by a reprimand or a disobligation order.

- (8) A reference or an obligation for an important reason is pronounced by a reference or an order for cancellation. Pre-trial proceedings (§ 68 of the Administrative Court Regulations) are not required.

- Pre-trial proceedings (Section 68 of the Administrative Court Rules) are not required. The administrative proceedings are governed by the State Administrative Procedures Act.

- The administrative procedure is governed by the Landesverwaltungsverfahrengesetz. The Landesdisciplinarygesetz and § 7 para. 1 no. 2 sentence 1 LBG shall not apply; § 31 para. 1 sentence 1 to 4 LBG shall apply accordingly.

- The Landesdisciplinarygesetz and § 7 para. 1 no. 2 sentence 1 LBG shall not apply; § 31 para. 1 sentence 1 to 4 LBG shall apply mutatis mutandis. § 5 a External emergency plans for serious accidents involving dangerous substances (1) The task providers pursuant to § 2 para. 1 no. 1 to 3 shall, within two years of receipt of the information required for the preparation of external alarm and operational plans in accordance with § 10 para. 1 sentence 1 no. 2 of the Accident Regulation (12.

- § 5 a External contingency plans for serious accidents involving dangerous substances (1) The task providers pursuant to § 2 para. 1 nos. 1 to 3 shall, within two years of receipt of the information required for the preparation of external alarm and deployment plans in accordance with § 10 para. 1 sentence 1 no. 2 of the Accident Ordinance (12. BImSchV) as amended on 15 March 2017 (BGBl.

- BImSchV) as amended on 15 March 2017 (BGBl. I p. 483) as amended Alarm and operational plans as external emergency plans for all operating areas of the upper class within the meaning of § 10 para. 1 in conjunction with § 2 no. 2 12.

- 483) in the current version Alarm and deployment plans as external emergency plans for all operating areas of the upper class within the meaning of § 10 para. 1 in conjunction with § 2 Nr. 2 12. BImSchV.

- BImSchV. These are to be agreed with the internal alarm and security plans of the operator; § 31 para. 2 sentence 1 applies with the condition that it must be ensured that, taking into account the individual case or general criteria, the operator provides sufficient information on the risks arising from the operation and can be used at any time, both in the preparation and continuation of the external emergency plans, as well as in the event of a serious accident or uncontrolled event, which, by reason of its nature, can reasonably be expected to lead to a serious accident, to technical advice on the risks arising from the operation.

- These shall be agreed with the operator's internal alarm and security plans; § 31 para. 2 sentence 1 shall apply mutatis mutandis with the condition that it must be ensured that, taking into account the individual case or general criteria, the operator provides sufficient information on the risks arising from the operation and can be accessed at any time, both when the external emergency plans are drawn up and updated, as well as in the event of a serious accident or an uncontrolled event, which, by reason of its nature, can reasonably be expected to lead to a serious accident, by means of expert advice on the risks arising from the operation. The deadlines for the transmission of the information required for the establishment of the external emergency plans by the operator are set out in § 10 para. 1 sentence 2 12.

- The deadlines for the transmission of the information required for the preparation of the external emergency plans by the operator are based on § 10 para. 1 sentence 2 12. BImSchV.

- BImSchV. In the case of business areas located abroad, the district-free cities and the districts may require that the required information be provided in German.

- In the case of business areas located abroad, the district-free cities and the districts may require that the necessary information be provided in German. The district-free cities and the districts, the latter in agreement with the municipalities concerned, may, on the basis of the information contained in the safety report according to § 9 12.

- On the basis of the information contained in the safety report in accordance with § 9 12. BImSchV in consultation with the Structural and Authorisation Directorate, in the case of installations and establishments subject to mountain supervision, and with the Landesamt für Geologie und Bergbau Rheinland-Pfalz, the district authorities may decide that it is not necessary to draw up an external emergency plan if it is found that there is no risk of a serious accident arising from the operation outside the company, in particular risks to human health, the environment and property in the vicinity of the company with a safety risk - page 12 of 51.

- BImSchV, in consultation with the Structural and Authorisation Directorate, with the Landesamt für Geologie und Bergbau Rheinland-Pfalz, decide that it is not necessary to draw up an external emergency plan if it is found that there is no risk of a serious accident arising from the operation outside the company, in particular risks to human health, the environment and physical values in the vicinity of the company with a certain probability - page 12 of 51.

- In the case of an establishment situated close to the territory of another Member State of the European Union, the county or county shall inform the other Member State of the European Union of its reasoned decision.

- In the case of an establishment situated close to the territory of another Member State of the European Union, the county or county shall inform the other Member State of the European Union of its reasoned decision. (2) The external emergency plan shall be drawn up in order to:

