# 01.01.2017

- Source: No.: 790-5 Norms: § 1, § 3 - § 5, § 9, § 18, § 27 BrSchG, § 79 KomVerfG, § 3, § 11 , § 12, § 15, § 16 LKatSG M-V, § 30, § 32 LWaldG, § 5 - § 7, § 10, § 11, § 13 -18, § 20 - § 22 WaldBrSchVO Fundstelle: AmtBl. M-V 2016, 947, ber.

- M-V 2016, 947, ber. 2017, p. 89 Cooperation in the prevention and control of forest fires in Mecklenburg-Vorpommern (Waldbrandrunderlass - WaldBrErl M-V) Non-official table of contents 1 Fundamentals 1.1 Legal basis 1.2 Terms 1.3 Responsibilities 2 Measures to prevent forest fires 2.1 Forest fire protection technical measures 2.2 Forest fire risk areas and risk stages 2.3 Emergency service, operational and alarm documents 2.4 Monitoring, alarm 2.4.1 Forest fire monitoring facilities 2.4.2 Forest fire patrol services, forest fire preparedness services and forest fire preparedness services 2.4.3 Alerting 3 Cooperation between forest authorities, town and district authorities and fire brigades in the prevention and control of forest fires 3.1 Working group on forest fire protection, district forest fire protection officers 3.2 Operations plans, disaster prevention planning 3.3 Operations management below the disaster incident 3.3.2 Operations management in the event of a disaster 3.3.3 Forestry authorities in the management of operations 3.4 Indication of the occurrence of a fire in forest fires 3.5 Use of aircraft for forest fire prevention 3.6 Forest fire control maps 5.

- The Ministry of the Interior and the Fight against Forest Fires in Mecklenburg-Vorpommern (Waldbrandrunderlass - WaldBrErl M-V) Non-official Table of Contents 1 Fundamentals 1.1 Legal Basis 1.2 Terms 1.3 Responsibilities 2 Measures for the Prevention of Forest Fires 2.1 Forest Fire Protection Technical Measures 2.2 Forest Fire Risk Areas and Hazard Levels 2.3 Standby, Operational and Alarm Documents 2.4 Monitoring, Alarm 2.4.1 Forest Fire Monitoring Installations 2.4.2 Forest Fire Strip Services, Forest Fire Fire Fire preparedness Services and Forest Fire preparedness Services 2.4.3 Alerting 3 Cooperation between forest authorities, municipal and county authorities and fire brigades in the prevention and control of forest fires 3.1 Working Group on Forest Fire Protection, County Forest Fire Protection Officers 3.2 Operations Plans, Civil Protection Plans 3.3 Operations Management 3.3.1 Operations Management below the Disaster Case 3.3.2 Operations Management in the Disaster Case 3.3.3 Participation of forest authorities in the Management of Operations 3.4 Indication of disaster fire protection in forest fires 3.5 Use of aircraft for forest fire fighting 3.6 Forest Fire Operations Cards 3.7 Blocking of forest forest fire prevention 4 12.

- Gl. No. 790 - 5 Due to § 22 of the Waldbrandschutzverordnung of 9 August 2016 (GVOBl.

- No. 790 - 5 The Ministry of Agriculture, Environment and Consumer Protection and the Ministry of Home Affairs and Sport (GVOBl. M-V, p. 730) adopt the following administrative regulation on the basis of Article 22 of the Forest Fire Protection Ordinance of 9 August 2016 (GVOBl. M-V, p. 730): 1 Basics

