# 1.1

- Legal basis For the enforcement of preventive and defensive measures in the case of forest fires, the following provisions must be taken into account: - Landeswaldgesetz as amended by the notice dated 27 July 2011 (GVOBl. M-V p. 870), which is based on Article 14 of the law of 27 May 2016 (GVOBl.

- 870), as amended by Article 14 of the Law of 27 May 2016 (GVOBl. M-V p. 431, 436) (hereinafter referred to as LWaldG), - Fire Protection and Assistance Act M-V, as amended by the Notice of 21 May 2016 (hereinafter referred to as LWaldG), - Fire Protection and Assistance Act M-V.

- 431, 436) (hereinafter referred to as LWaldG), - Fire Protection and Assistance Act M-V, as amended by the notice dated 21 December 2015 (GVOBl.

- December 2015 (GVOBl. M-V p. 612; 2016 p. 20) (hereinafter referred to as BrSchG), - State Disaster Protection Act as published on 15 July 2016 (GVOBl.

- 612; 2016 p. 20) (hereinafter referred to as BrSchG), - State Disaster Protection Act as published on 15 July 2016 (GVOBl. M-V p. 611) (hereinafter referred to as LKatSG M-V), - Waldbrandschutzverordnung vom 9. August 2016 (GVOBl.

- 611) (hereinafter referred to as LKatSG M-V), - Waldbrandschutzverordnung vom 9. August 2016 (GVOBl. M-V S. 730) (hereinafter referred to as WaldBrSch- VO).

- 730) (hereinafter referred to as WaldBrSch- VO). Furthermore, the provisions on the right of explosives to pyrotechnic products and the Regulation on the prevention of fires caused by the use of balloon-like filaments from the

