# 3.3.3

- Participation of the forest authorities in the operational management The highest-ranking representation of the forest authority is present to assist in the fight against a forest fire the operational management on site according to § 21 paragraph 2 WaldBrSchVO. Through the forest authority, a sufficient number of forest specialists are to be employed on site within the scope of their possibilities.

- The forestry authority has the capacity to deploy a sufficient number of local forest experts. In the event of a disaster, a responsible person of the forestry authorities will be involved in the advisory team of the relevant civil protection authority.

- In the event of a disaster, a person in charge of the forestry authorities should be involved in the advisory staff of the competent civil protection authority. As long as the lower civil protection authority carries out the operation, this should be the head of the lower forestry authority.

- As long as the lower civil protection authority carries out the operation, this should be the head of the lower forestry authority. It can delegate this task to the district fire protection officer or their representation.

- It may delegate this task to the district fire protection officers or their representation. Until its arrival at the site of operation, this function shall assume the highest-ranking representation of the forest authorities present.

- Until its arrival at the site of operation, this function takes over the highest-ranking representation of the forest authorities present. It is supported by suitable, especially local staff, who determine it themselves or by the respective forest owner.

- It is supported by suitable, especially local staff, who determine it themselves or by the respective forest owner. In doing so, it must be ensured that the technical operational management on site is also staffed with suitable staff of the forestry authority.

- In doing so, it must be ensured that the technical operations management is also staffed on site with suitable staff from the forestry authority. Forest owners must be involved in an appropriate manner.

- The forest owners must be involved in an appropriate manner. The head or the head of the forestry department of the forestry department of the forestry authority assumes this function if, in accordance with § 16 paragraph 2 LKatSG M-V of the Minister for Home Affairs and Sports, the head of the civil protection authority is responsible for the management of the defence measures or if an interministerial management staff is formed.

- The head or head of the forestry department of the forestry authority will assume this function if, in accordance with § 16 paragraph 2 LKatSG M-V, the Minister for Home Affairs and Sports, as the Chief Civil Protection Authority, is responsible for the management of the defence measures or if an interministerial management team is formed. This procedure also applies in the event that the team is active in the LPBK in advance.

- This procedure also applies in the event that the LPBK takes action in the run-up to the LPBK team. More detailed rules are laid down in the LPBK's Forest Fire Civil Protection Plan and the administrative provisions of the Supreme Forestry Authority.

