# 1.

- Introduction One of the most important findings in the field of vegetation fire control is that firefighting teams on the ground with manual firefighting techniques are extremely effective for continuous success in addition to tank extinguishing vehicles and extinguishing water. Firefighting teams fight ground fire, create wound strips, carry out re-extinguishing work and prevent fire spread even without the support of firefighting vehicles.

- Extinguishing teams fight ground fires, create wound strips, carry out re-extinguishing work and prevent fire spread even without the support of extinguishing vehicles. In order to enable extinguishing teams to carry out an independent, efficient and self-sufficient control of vegetation fires, corresponding vegetation fire modules were put together in the district of Aschaffenburg.

- In order to enable extinguishing teams to carry out an independent, efficient and self-sufficient control of vegetation fires, corresponding vegetation fire modules were assembled in the district of Aschaffenburg. They are stationed at the locations Großostheim and Waldaschaff.

- They are stationed at the locations Großostheim and Waldaschaff. If necessary, they are then transported logistically unproblematic, to the respective operational site.

- If necessary, these are then transported logistically unproblematic, to the respective application site. Equipment for the vegetation fire control vegetation fire module Lkr.

- Vegetation fire control equipment Vegetation fire module Lkr. AB page 4 of 26

