# 3.

- Equipment loading So that the equipment is logistically fast, easily transportable, if necessary even air-loadable, the equipment is stored distributed in - 01 pieces Grid box - 01 pieces Plastic container (made of polypropylene) The plastic container is additionally equipped with two C-connection couplings including blind couplings.The use of the box offers the advantage that it can be used simultaneously or extra as a water container.

- The use of the box offers the advantage that it can be used simultaneously or additionally as a water container. The usable content of the plastic container is about 670 litres.

- The usable content of the plastic container is about 670 liters. - 02 pieces C-stopper (C-hose barrier) The C-hose barrier serves to shut off the water supply and exit of the plastic container.

- - 02 pieces C-barrel (C-barrel) The C-barrel (C-barrel) is used to lock off the water supply and outlet of the plastic container. It is also possible to install it in the C-water conveyor hose line as a barrel.

- It is also possible to install in the C-water conveying hose line as a barrier. Thus, a hose change or hose extension can be carried out at any time, without reporting water retention or water march to the man at the distributor.

- This means that a hose change or hose extension can be made at any time without reporting back water retention or water march to the man at the distributor. The water-conducting pipe can remain under pressure if a hose is disconnected and coupled after closing the hose barrier.

- The water-conducting line can remain under pressure if a hose is disconnected and coupled after closing the hose closure. This work can be carried out in a very short time.

- This work can be carried out in the shortest possible time. C 52 coupling with blind coupling equipment for vegetation fire control vegetation fire module Lkr.

- C 52 coupling with blind coupling Vegetation fire control equipment Vegetation fire module Lkr. AB page 6 of 26

