# 6.3

- Portable high-pressure pump Wick 250 Pump data: Engine: 2-stroke Power: 8hp Turns: 3000 rpm Fuel mix: 24:1 Weight:: 14 kg The high-pressure pump Wick 250 from Mercedes Textiles (USA) is specially designed for the conveyance of extinguishing water in rough terrain. Due to the low weight of 14 kg, the pump can be transported easily through units on foot using a back support frame.

- Due to the low weight of 14 kg, the pump can be transported easily through units on foot using a back support frame. The high performance (18 bar) of the pump allows water to be transported over longer distances, even with smaller hose diameters, e.g. size D.

- The high performance (18 bar) of the pump enables the conveying of water over long distances, even with smaller hose diameters, e.g. the size D. The following range of applications is provided: The conveyance of extinguishing water to the fire surface from a folding container or open water.

- The following application spectrum is planned: Transport of extinguishing water to the fire area from a folding container or open water. The pump has an input and output.

- The pump has an input and output. These are each equipped with a C-Storz coupling.

- These are each equipped with a C-Storz coupling. Below is the power curve of the pump: 5 bar liters equipment for vegetation fire control vegetation fire module Lkr.

- Below is the power curve of the pump: 5 bar liters of equipment to combat vegetation fires Vegetation fire module Lkr. AB page 11 of 26

