# 9.1

- Extinguishing backpack The extinguishing backpack is used for the control of vegetation fires in the area independent of extinguishing vehicles. It is mainly used for the • extinguishing of fire nests and • for carrying out re-extinguishing work.

- It is mainly used in the • erasure of fire nests and • for carrying out re-extinguishing work. It consists of the water bubble, the outer shell with carrying straps, a supply hose and the hand pump.

- It consists of the water bubble, the outer shell with carrying straps, a supply hose and the hand pump. The water bubble of the extinguishing backpack has a capacity of 19 liters.

- The water bubble of the extinguishing backpack has a capacity of 19 liters. The carrying system adapts ergonomically to the back, the "Cordura" outer shell additionally protects the inner "PVC water bubble".

- The carrying system adapts ergonomically to the back, the "Cordura" outer shell additionally protects the inner "PVC water bubble". Mounting options and external pockets on the outer shell allow additional equipment, such as a Pulaski axt, to be carried.

- Mounting options and external pockets on the outer shell allow additional equipment, such as a Pulaski-Axt. The large filling opening allows the extinguishing backpack to be easily filled on rivers or lakes.

- With the large filling opening, the extinguishing backpack can easily be filled on rivers or lakes. With a throw width of up to 7 m, the fire bay or fire islands can be extinguished very effectively.

- With a throw width of up to 7 m, the fire bay or fire islands can be extinguished very effectively. At full power 8 liters per minute can be applied.

- With full power, 8 liters per minute can be applied. By carrying two or more extinguishing backpacks, the units that operate on foot receive increased flexibility and impact equipment to combat vegetation fire.

- By carrying two or more extinguishing backpacks, the units operating on foot receive increased flexibility and impact power equipment to combat vegetation fire. AB page 15 of 26

