# 9.2

- Fire Patch The fire patch is one of the extinguishers, easy to handle and easy to transport. It is equipped with fan-shaped strips of hardened spring steel and a 2 m long wooden handle.

- It is equipped with fan-shaped strips of hardened spring steel and a 2 m long wooden handle. The fan width is approx. 48 cm.

- The fan width is approx. 48 cm. The wooden handle can be easily detached from the flap by means of a wing screw.

- The wooden handle can be easily detached from the flap by means of a wing screw. By means of fire patches, floor fires with flame lengths up to approx. 1 m can be fought.

- Fire patches can be used to fight fires with flame lengths up to about 1 m. With it the fire or the embers are struck out, i.e. here the fire patches are lifted in not too fast movements 20 to 30 cm from the ground and hit again on the fire hem or a wiping movement (similar to with a cleaning cloth) applied.

- With it the fire or the ember is struck out, i.e. here the fire patch is raised in not too fast movements 20 to 30 cm from the ground and hit again on the fire hem or a wiping movement (similar to with a cleaning cloth) applied. At the wiping movement it is favorable with the patch to work sideways "sweeping".

- With the wiping movement it is favorable with the patch to work sideways "fingend". Reaching the sheet metal strip the fire surface so the fire patch is about 2 sec.

- If the strips reach the fire surface, the fire patch should be placed on the ground about 2 sec., so that the flames or the ember are completely removed from the oxygen.

- To lay down on the ground so that the flames or the glow are completely removed from the oxygen. Too fast up and down movement leads only to an increased oxygen supply and thus to an ineffective extinguishing effect.

- Too fast up and down movement only results in an increased oxygen supply and thus an ineffective extinguishing effect. After use, the fire patch should be cleaned and slightly oiled.

- After use, the fire patch should be cleaned and slightly oiled.Veget fire control equipment Vegetation fire module Lkr.

- Vegetation fire control equipment Vegetation fire module Lkr. AB page 16 of 26

