# 25.06.25, 21:36

- Technical measures for forest fire prevention - waldwissen. net page 1 of 4 https://www.

- Page 1 of 4 https://www.waldwissen.

- waldwissen. net/de/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/technische-waldbrandvorbeugung Editor's Office Forstliche Versuchs- und Forschungsanstalt Baden-Württemberg URL: /de/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/technische-waldbrandvorbeugung Technical measures for forest fire prevention What needs to be taken into account in order to successfully counter forest fires?

- net/de/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/technische-waldbrandvorbeugung Editor's Office for Forest Research and Research Baden-Württemberg URL: /de/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/technische-waldbrandbeugung Technical measures for forest fire prevention What needs to be taken into account in order to be able to successfully counter forest fires? Water sampling points, good development, functioning monitoring and a well-established control team are the keys to success.

- Water sampling points, good development, functioning monitoring and a well-established fighting team are the key to success. Most forest fires are caused by human action.

- Most forest fires are caused by human action. Avoidance of forest fires can be achieved by various measures.

- The prevention of forest fires can be achieved through various measures. In the end, it is an interplay of the different measures that promise successful prevention.

- In the end, it is an interplay of the different measures that promise successful prevention. As a result, technical prevention measures are presented.

- As a result, technical prevention measures are presented.Effecting water withdrawal points (LWE) The main extinguishing agent in forest fires is still water.

- The main extinguishing agent for forest fires is still water. Therefore, it is necessary to create and/or maintain fire-fighting water reserves in large contiguous and fire-prone forest areas on suitable waters or by installing artificial water extraction sites.

- Therefore, it is necessary to invest and maintain fire-fighting water reserves in large contiguous and fire-prone forest areas on suitable waters or by installing artificial water extraction points. In the new installation of fire-fighting water extraction sites, a coordination between forest owners, forest authorities and fire brigades is necessary.

- A coordination between forest owners, forest authorities and fire brigades is necessary for the new installation of extinguishing water sampling points. It is important that these sampling points are sufficiently marked and easily accessible for extinguishing vehicles.

- It is important that these sampling points are sufficiently marked and easily accessible for fire-fighting vehicles. In addition to natural waters, deep wells, flat mirror fountains, artificial ponds, storage facilities, containers embedded in the ground (cisterning) or connections to long-distance water lines can be considered as a extinguishing water sampling point in the forest or near the forest.

- In addition to natural waters, deep wells, flat mirror fountains, artificial ponds, storage facilities, containers embedded in the ground (cisterning) or connections to long-distance water lines can be considered as extinguishing water sampling points in the forest or near the forest. The functionality and accessibility of the water sampling points must be checked regularly.

- The functionality and accessibility of the water collection points must be checked regularly. Development For the accessibility of forest resources by fire-fighting vehicles, it is important that the roads are accessible for trucks.

- Development For the accessibility of forest resources by extinguishing vehicles, it is important that the roads are accessible for trucks. Likewise, turning loops, alternate points and an adequate light space profile are to be maintained or re-installed.

- In the same way, turning loops, alternate points and a sufficient light space profile must be maintained or re-established. As with the installation of the soldering ponds, the forest development should be coordinated with the forest authorities, the fire brigade and the forest owner.

- Just as with the installation of the extinguishing ponds, the forest development should be coordinated with the forest authorities, the fire brigade and the forest owner. Machines and equipment Even today, the fight against forest fires, in addition to mobile extinguishing technology, is heavy manual work as many people as possible.

- Machines and equipment Even today, the fight against forest fires, in addition to mobile extinguishing technology, is heavy manual work as many people as possible. Therefore, in areas of medium and high forest fire risk for forest enterprises of all types of property, the preservation of suitable machines or work equipment belongs to forest fire prevention.

- Therefore, in areas of medium and high forest fire risk for forestry enterprises of all types of property, the preservation of suitable machines or work equipment belongs to forest fire prevention. These include, in addition to small equipment such as spades, shovels, fire patches and axes, transport vehicles or forest-run tractors with ploughs.

- In addition to small tools such as spades, shovels, fire patches and axes, these include transport vehicles or forest-run tractors with ploughs. These equipment or machines are either reserved or contractually bound by the forest farms themselves.

- These devices or machines are either maintained by the forest farms themselves or are contractually bound. Forest fire monitoring Since the introduction of camera-based automatic forest fire monitoring systems, the number of fires has not reduced but the area of forest fires.

- Forest fire monitoring Since the introduction of camera-based automatic forest fire monitoring systems, the number of fires has not been reduced, but the area of the forest fires has been reduced. Early and accurate detection of forest fires and rapid alarming ensure that the forces are on site quickly and start fire work quickly.

- The early and accurate detection of forest fires and the rapid alarming ensure that the emergency personnel are quickly on site and start extinguishing work quickly. An optical sensor system for early detection and monitoring of forest fires is presented in a separate article.

- An optical sensor system for early detection and monitoring of forest fires is presented in a separate article. Air monitoring Monitoring flights in times of high forest fire risk are an opportunity to detect forest fires at an early stage.

- Air monitoring Monitoring flights in times of high forest fire risk are a possibility to detect forest fires early. In addition to officially ordered surveillance flights (fire brigade flight service e.g. in Lower Saxony) also airlines or private sports flyers can be used, which fly fixed routes.

- In addition to officially ordered surveillance flights (fire brigade flight service e.g. in Lower Saxony), air carriers or private sports flyers can also be used, which fly defined routes. This cooperation is practised e.g. in Saxony, Bavaria and Brandenburg.

- This cooperation is practised in Saxony, Bavaria and Brandenburg, for example. In Rhineland-Palatinate, all airports are registered from hazard level 4, and the pilots ask for help with early detection.

- In Rhineland-Palatinate, all airports are registered from hazard level 4, whereupon the pilots ask for help in early detection. In addition to early detection and location of forest fires, support from the air can be provided in the guidance of Fig. 1: Fire extinguishing pond.

- In addition to the early detection and location of forest fires, support from the air during the guidance of Fig. 1: Fire extinguishing pond. (Photo: N. Kessner) 25.06.25, 21:36 Technical measures for forest fire prevention - forest knowledge.

- (Photo: N. Kessner) 25.06.25, 21:36 Technical measures for forest fire prevention - waldwissen. net page 2 of 4 https://www.

- Page 2 of 4 https://www.waldwissen.

- waldwissen. net/de/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/technische-waldbrandvorbeugung Einsatzkraften am Boden be helpful.

- net/en/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/technische-waldbrandbeberbeugung Einsatzkraften am Boden be helpful. Map material The 1:50,000 scale forest fire deployment card (WBEK) with the UTM grid is the basis for all parties involved in forest fire control.

- Map material The 1:50,000 scale forest fire map (WBEK) with the UTM grid is the basis for all parties involved in forest fire control. This map shows all important elements such as extinguishing water sampling points, towns, etc.

- In this map all important elements such as extinguishing water sampling points, villages etc. are shown. The representation takes place according to the tactical signs of the fire brigade.

- The display is based on the tactical signs of the fire brigade. These maps are provided by the authorities and updated at least every five years (M-V).

- These maps are provided by the authorities and updated at least every five years (M-V). In case of major forest fire events, area maps with a scale of 1:25,000 or even 1:10.000 can be used.

- In the event of major forest fire events, station maps with a scale of 1:25,000 or even 1:10.000 can be used. In addition to the orientation of non-location personnel, these maps serve as a guide for the control centres.

- In addition to the orientation of non-local forces, these maps serve as a guide for the control stations. By using the automatic camera monitoring systems, maps and images are also generated digitally via the fire site and transmitted to the emergency forces.

- By using the automatic camera monitoring systems, maps and images are also generated digitally via the fire site and transmitted to the emergency forces. In North Rhine-Westphalia, the state forest administration, the fire brigades as well as the municipalities and districts have been equipped with the "Hazard Defense Map Waldbrand" since 2008.

- Since 2008, the state forest administration, the fire brigades as well as the municipalities and districts in North Rhine-Westphalia have been equipped with the "Hazard Defense Map Waldbrand". These maps are available on a scale of 1:25,000 for the entire state area and show, among other things, the truck's navigable network of paths and turning points in the forest, standing and flowing water structures as well as areas with special hazards and "Kyrill" storm areas.

- These maps on a scale of 1:25,000 are available for the entire country area and show, among other things, the truck's navigable network of paths and turning stations in the forest, standing and flowing water structures as well as areas with special hazards and "kyrill" storm areas. In Rhineland-Palatinate, the "Rettungskette-Forst" provides the emergency personnel with information on the accessibility of paths and rescue points, which are also marked on site.

- In Rheinland-Pfalz, the "Rettungskette-Forst" provides the emergency forces with information about maps on the accessibility of paths and rescue points, which are also marked on site. Further information on forest fires is not noted.

- Further information on forest fires is not noted. Means of communication Only with a functioning communication between the fire brigades and forest authorities can forest fires be combated quickly and successfully.

- Communications Only with a functioning communication between the fire brigades and forest authorities can forest fires be combated quickly and successfully. Mobile phones and radio connections are necessary for this purpose.

- For this purpose mobile phones and radio connections are necessary. Phone lists are also to be kept up to date.

- In Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, routines run annually, which check the actuality of the WBEK, the telephone, mobile phone and address lists as well as the preparedness plans before the forest fire season.

- In Mecklenburg-Vorpommern routines run annually, which check before the forest fire season the topicality of the WBEK, the telephone, mobile phone and address lists as well as the preparedness plans. Alarming and operational plans, operational guidance Before the fire fall alarming and operational plans must be created.

- Alarming and operational plans, operational management Before the fire, alarming and operational plans must be drawn up. In the regions of Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, which are at risk of forest fire, this is the task of the district-related working groups "Waldbrandschutz" (see co-operation).

- In the regions of Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, which are at risk of forest fire, this is the task of the district-related working groups "Waldbrandschutz" (see co-operation). In addition to current plans, premises can also be designated for the operational management in advance of a fire, if no emergency vehicles are used as central management.

- In addition to current plans, in the run-up to a fire, operational control rooms can also be designated if no emergency control cars are used as a central line. These rooms should have sufficient communication equipment (computers, printers) as well as technical equipment (bos radio – authorities with regulatory and security tasks, mobile phones, fixed telephones, detectors).

- In addition to the technical equipment (computers, printers), these premises should also have sufficient means of communication (BOS radio – authorities with regulatory and security tasks, mobile phones, fixed telephones, detectors), good road connection and a helicopter landing place.

- In addition, a good road connection and a helicopter landing place must be ensured. Since press and media representatives must also be expected in the event of a fire event, a separate room for work should be provided for these during a longer-term event.

- Since press and media representatives must also be expected in the event of a fire, a separate space for work should be provided for these in a longer-term event. Cooperation and joint exercises Especially in the field of forest fire, cooperation between forest owners, administrations and various fire and civil protection organisations is important.

- Cooperation and joint exercises The cooperation between forest owners, administrations and various fire and civil protection organisations is of particular importance in the area of forest fire-prone areas of the new federal states. Representatives of forest authorities, forest owners, fire brigades, fire/catastrophe protection, operational leaders and others from the district of Berufene are working together in the work groups "Waldbrandschutz" (Mecklenburg-Vorpommern).

- Representatives of forest authorities, forest owners, fire brigades, fire/catastrophe protection, operational leaders as well as others from the district of Berufene work together in the areas that are at risk of forest fire in the new federal states. These working groups organise joint training and training sessions as well as exercises, evaluate the forest fire situation and develop and update the operational documents.

- These working groups organize joint trainings and exercises, evaluate the forest fire activity and develop and update the operational documents. In addition to the professional work, the personal acquaintance of the members plays an important role.

- In addition to the professional work, the personal acquaintance of the members plays an important role. The joint experience and getting to know during the evaluation, planning and exercise activity is the guarantee for a collegial cooperation in the case of use.

- The joint experience and getting to know during the evaluation, planning and exercise activity is the guarantee for a collegial cooperation in case of use. This avoids errors, it is acted quickly and decisively and thus reduces the fire surface.

- This avoids mistakes, acts quickly and decisively and thus reduces the fire surface. Fig. 2: Fire watch tower.

- Fig. 2: Fire watch tower. (Photo: D. Spörck) Fig. 3: Forest fire exercise.

- (Photo: D. Spörck) Fig. 3: Forest fire exercise. (Photo: J. Kautz) 25.06.25, 21:36 Technical measures for forest fire prevention - forest knowledge.

- (Photo: J. Kautz) 25.06.25, 21:36 Technical measures for forest fire prevention - waldwissen. net page 3 of 4 https://www.

- Page 3 of 4 https://www.waldwissen.

- waldwissen. net/de/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/technische-waldbrandvorbeugung Mecklenburg-Vorpommern Brandenburg Schleswig-Holstein Learn more about forest fire prevention: Guide for Forest Crisis Management Back to the main page of the guide Forstliches Krisenmanagement: Übersicht der verschiedenen Themensammlung Back to the article overview in the: Themensammlung Waldbrand Document info Authors Susanne Kaulfuss Editors Forstliche Versuchs- und Forschungsanstalt Baden-Württemberg (/en/we-ueber-uns/redaktion-fva) Contact Network Forstliches Risiko- und Krisenmanagement Forstliche Versuchs- und Forschungsanstalt Baden-Württemberg Forstwirtschaft und Management Wonnhaldestraße 4 79100 Freiburg Tel: +49 761 4018 231 Fax: +49 761 4018 333 E-Mail (mailto:fva@waldwissen.

- net/de/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/technische-waldbrandvorbeugung Mecklenburg-Vorpommern Brandenburg Schleswig-Holstein Learn more about forest fire prevention: Guide for forest fire crisis management Back to the main page of the guide for forest crisis management: Overview of the various collections of topics Back to the article overview in the: Themenammlung Waldbrand Document info Authors Susanne Kaulfuss Redaktion Forstliche Versuchs- und Forschungsanstalt Baden-Württemberg (/de/we-ueber-uns/redaktion-fva) Kontakt Netzwerk Forstliches Risiko- und Krisenmanagement Forstwirtschaft und Forschungsanstalt Baden-Württemberg Forstwirtschaft und Management Wonnhaldestraße 4 79100 Freiburg Tel: +49 761 4018 231 Fax: +49 761 4018 333 E-Mail (mailto:fva@waldwissen.net) Weblink (https://forest risk management.

- Weblink (https://forstliches-Riskmanagement. de/) Leitforstamte take over certain tasks of forest fire protection for several forest offices (adapted to county borders and forest fire hazard class) Kreiswaldbrandschutzbeauftragte coordinate the cooperation between forest authority and district or district-free city in the working groups Waldbrandschutz annually updated preparedness, operational and alarm documents (planning of the forest authorities with the involvement of the Federal Forests, non-governmental forest administrations and forest owners) Annual update of the forest fire intervention card Telephone, mobile phone and address lists preparedness plans Exercises for forest fire control annually Radio and alarming exercises in areas with hazard classes A and B in the context of training and training every two years a forest fire exercise, in areas of hazard class C every three years Waldbrandschutzbeauftragter in Amt für Forstwirtschaft (AfF) is responsible for:

- (adjusted to county boundaries and forest fire hazard class) District forest fire protection officer coordinate the cooperation between forest authority and district or district-free city in the working groups Forest fire protection annually updated preparedness, operational and alarm documents (planning of forest authorities with the involvement of the Federal Forests, non-governmental forest administrations and forest owners) Annual update of the forest fire control card Telephone, mobile phone and address directories preparedness plans Exercises for forest fire control annually Radio and alarm exercise in areas with hazard classes A and B within the framework of the training and training every two years a forest fire exercise, in areas of hazard class C every three years a forest fire protection officer in the Office for Forestry (AfF) is responsible for: annual preparation of the forest fire alarm plan coordination of the preventive forest fire protection representation of the AfF in professional committees of the counties and district-free cities function of the forest fire officer in the management board in large-chad events or disaster case coordination of the public opinion on forest fire in the field of forest fire)

- Preparation of the forest fire alarm plan Coordination of preventive forest fire protection Representation of the AfF in expert committees of the counties and non-circular cities Function of the expert advisor Forst in the management team in major damage events or disaster case Coordination of public relations work on forest fire in the AfF Establishment of a working group Protection of forests in areas of danger classes A and A1 recommended (members: district fire master, forest fire protection officer d. ÄfF, one representative of the state forest enterprise, federal forest forest, corporate forest and private forest) annually updated forest fire alarm plans (responsibility and accessibility, available forces and resources) annual forest fire protection exercise Creation of alarm and deployment plans (at local risk) at county level every 10 years Risk assessment at a joint appointment of representatives of forest owners, the district, the lower forest authority, local regulatory authority and local communities in the event of increased risks Preparation, training and exercise of a detailed alarm and deployment plan, otherwise summary of the use and basic determination of the defence structures Integration into the alarm plans of the Office for disaster protection Forest fire prevention measures 25.

- Regulatory authority and municipalities in the event of increased risks Development, training and exercise of a detailed alarm and deployment plan, otherwise summary of the means of action and basic definition of the defence structures Integration into the alarm plans of the Office for Civil Protection Forest building measures for forest fire prevention Public relations on forest fire prevention Financial preparedness for forest fire risk 25.06.25, 21:36 Technical measures for forest fire prevention - waldwissen. net page 4 of 4 https://www.

- Page 4 of 4 https://www.waldwissen.

- waldwissen. net/de/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/technische-waldbrandvorbeugung Original article Kaulfuß Susanne (2011): Technical measures for forest fire prevention.

- net/en/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/technische-waldbrandvorbebeugung Original article Kaulfuß Susanne (2011): Technical measures for forest fire prevention. http://www.net/en/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/technische-waldbrandbeugung Original article Kaulfuß Susanne (2011): Technical measures for forest fire prevention.

- http://www.waldwissen.

- waldwissen.net (http://www.waldwissen.net).

- net (http://www.waldwissen.

- , 09.03.2011.

- net) , 09.03.2011. Online version 01.01.2020

