# 2.2.3 Operatives Controlling

- Operational controlling is geared towards the short- to medium-term success of a company and is oriented towards the following questions: - "Where is the need for action?" - "What should happen in concrete terms?" - "How should the coming months/years be designed? The operational controlling's efforts are therefore directed towards the success or economic viability of the period to be considered and control it through management and resource planning, cost planning and, where appropriate, revenue planning as well as financial planning.

- As a result, the operational controlling efforts are focused on the success and profitability of the period to be considered and control them through management and resource planning, cost and, where applicable, revenue planning, as well as financial planning. (Lamers, 2018, p. 176) According to Lamers (2018), operational controlling can be considered among other things the following instruments: - Key figures and key figures systems see 2.3, - Cost Performance Accounting (CLR), - Budgeting, - Balanced Scorecard (BSC), was developed in 1996 by Kaplan and Norton as "Balanced Valuation List" (Horváth & Part-ners, 2004, 3 ff.), (Friedag and Schmidt, 2015), (Jossé, 2005), (Scher and Alt, 2002), (Steff, 2013), Bröff, 200 and ff.

- (Lamers, 2018, p. 176) For operational controlling, according to Lamers (2018) among other things, the following instruments are considered: - Key figures or key figures systems see 2.3, - Cost Performance Accounting (KLR), - Budgeting, - Balanced Scorecard (BSC), was developed in 1996 by Kaplan and Norton as "a balanced scoreboard" (Horváth & Part-ners, 2004, 3 ff.), (Friedag and Schmidt, 2015), (Jossé, 2005), (Schererer and Alt, 2002), (Steger, 2013, 353 ff.), (Tauberger, 2008, 218 ff.), (Weber and uffer, 2016, 200 ff.), (Wöhe, Döring and Brösel, 2002). (Steger, 2013, 353 ff.), (Tauberger, 2008, 218 ff.), (Weber und Schäffer, 2016, 200 ff.), (Station, Döring and Brösel, 2016 - Bestimmungung.

- – The original form of the Balanced Scorecard takes into account balanced four perspectives: - Financial perspective: records cash flows and budget sizes, - Customer perspective: takes into account, among other things, customer numbers and satisfaction, - Process perspective (performance perspective): analyzes internal processes, - Potential perspective: captures among other things number, qualification and motivation of employees; learning and development. Another perspective is important for the field of public administration: - Perspective of positioning in the political-societal environment or orientation on the socio-political mission (Deutsches Patent- und Markenamt, 2005, p. 36).

- Another perspective is important for the public administration: - the perspective of positioning in the political-societal environment or orientation towards the socio-political mission (Deutsches Patent- und Markenamt, 2005, p. 36). For each perspective of the organization, the corresponding strategic goals are derived, starting from the vision and strategy, which are then concreteized by measures with target and actual values.

- For each perspective of the organization, based on the vision and strategy, the corresponding strategic goals are derived, which are then concreteized by measures with target and actual values. This ideally creates a multidimensional, balanced representation of the success factors of an organization.

- This ideally creates a multidimensional, balanced representation of the success factors of an organization. - Benchmarking Describes the search for the "best practices that lead to top-level skills" and supports the "learning from the best" in a continuous (improvement) process.

- - Benchmarking Describes the search for the "best practices leading to excellence" and supports "learning from the best" in a continuous (improvement) process. (Lamers, 2018, pp. 176–177)

