# 2.4 Berichtswesen - Informationsversorgung

- Reporting is a core task of controlling, as it is responsible for the information and information provision of the management levels. It is therefore a management task to build a lean and decision-oriented reporting system.

- It is therefore a management task to build a lean and decision-oriented reporting system. (Mundhenke, 1996, 88 ff.), (Weber und Schäffer, 2016, 237 ff.), (Lamers, 2018, p. 173) The aim of such an information system is therefore to be action-oriented and to provide recommendations on early course corrections based on the information provided.

- (Mundhenke, 1996, 88 ff.), (Weber und Schäffer, 2016, 237 ff.), (Lamers, 2018, p. 173) The aim of such an information system is therefore to be effective and to provide recommendations on early course corrections based on the information provided. However, this requires the deliberate use of this instrument by providing the controller with information and by targeted retrieval of information by the controller.

- However, this requires the conscious use of this instrument by providing information by the controller and by the targeted retrieval of information by the management. (Lamers, 2018, pp. 173–174) Therefore, the following reporting requirements are required for targeted use: - reports must be available promptly (quickness before accuracy), - limitation to the essential avoids information floods, - reports must be attractive, e.g. with appropriate statistical diagrams, controlling as a management tool 11 - reports must be available at all hierarchical levels appropriately and in line with requirements (adressate-oriented), - reports must be prepared regularly, e.g. as a quarterly report, and if necessary or on request by the management - reports must be able to provide a recommendation for action.

- (Lamers, 2018, pp. 173–174) The following reporting requirements are therefore required for targeted use: - reports must be available in a timely manner (quickness before accuracy), - restrictions to the essentials avoid information floods, - reports must be attractively designed, e.g. with appropriate statistical diagrams, controlling as a management tool 11 - reports must be available at all hierarchical levels appropriately and appropriately (adressate-compliant), - reports must be produced regularly, e.g. as a quarterly report, and if necessary or on request by the management - reports must be able to provide a recommendation for action. Moreover, it is important, in particular in the public sector, "that adressate-appropriate reporting has a reference both to government's legislative planning and to medium-term planning, and that the respective amount of the performance order for achievement of objectives is illustrated by the introduction of new control models, "a change from default-oriented accountability to senior management" (Thom and Ritz, 2017, p. 177).

- In addition, it is important, in particular in the public sector, "that an addressable reporting makes a reference both to government legislative planning and to medium-term planning and illustrates the respective amount of the service contract for achievement of objectives." (Thom and Ritz, 2017, p. 177) The introduction of new governance models has also led to a change in past-oriented accountability of management management towards comparative reporting forms, which have been carried out for future-oriented management based on integrated management systems. These systems integrate and relate to various management information systems.

- These systems integrate various management information systems and relate them to each other. Typically, this representation takes place in so-called "departures".

- Typically, this representation takes place in so-called cockpit systems, whose "tables and instruments" are intended to give an inference as to whether the organization is "on course" and thus provide the possibility of data collection for control in a clear way.

- Cockpit systems, whose "tables and instruments" are intended to provide an inference as to whether the organisation is "on track" and thus provide the possibility of data collection for control in a clear manner. (Thom and Ritz, 2017, p. 178) In order to establish an "administrative cockpit", the following guidelines should be taken into account according to Thom and Ritz (2017): - Input greetings: personnel, finance and material resources; - Process information: capacity utilization, waiting times, pending tasks, complaints, project progress; - Results: financial, quantity and quality information according to institutions, task field, product or product group; - Impacts: satisfaction data, behavioural information; - Comparative information: service comparisons, time comparisons, size comparisons.

- (Thom und Ritz, 2017, p. 178) In order to set up an "administrative cockpit", Thom and Ritz (2017) recommended that the following guidelines be taken into account: - Input greetings: personnel, finance and material resources; - Process information: capacity utilisation, waiting times, pending tasks, complaints, project progress; - Results figures: financial, quantity and quality information according to institutions, field of work, product or product group; - Impacts: satisfaction data, behavioural information; - Comparative information: service comparisons, time comparisons, size comparisons. The information should be presented as far as possible in terms of pastity and intended-to-date comparison and referenced to forecast data.

- As far as possible, the information should be presented in terms of past events and should be compared to actual events and referenced to forecast data. (Thom and Ritz, 2017, p. 179) "Ampel reports" have proved particularly suitable for the current assessment of different work areas.

- (Thom und Ritz, 2017, p. 179) For the current evaluation of different work areas, "Ampel reports" have proved to be particularly suitable. The traffic light colours visualize previously set boundary areas, which as shown below should signal possibly action requirements.

- The traffic light colours visualize previously set boundary areas, which should signal as shown below if necessary action requirements. Meaning: - green: everything in order, no need for action, - yellow: possible target deviation; increased attention is required, - red: clear target deviation: immediate counter-control is required.

- Meaning: - green: everything in order, no need for action, - yellow: possible target deviation; increased attention is required, - red: clear target deviation: immediate counter-control is required. (Lamers, 2018, p. 174) Controlling in the participant service area of a fire brigade school 12 3 Controlling in the participant service area of a fire brigade school

