# 3.2 Teilnehmer-Service

- The results of the discussions that led to this work showed above all that the annual demand reports exceed the resources of the individual school locations provided for this purpose. Thus, it is obvious that key figures relating to the perspectives "Learning and development" as well as "Internal administrative processes" - utilization of teaching rooms, - utilization of guest rooms (free rooms and, if necessary, DZ as EZ use), - number and type of unencumbered courses Key figures referring to the perspectives "Effective orientation and target groups" as well as "Learning and development" - attractiveness of the establishment and the qualification offer - content development of the offer - consideration of customer wishes Number of indicators referring to the perspectives "Effective orientation and claim groups" as well as "Economicity and legality" - customer satisfaction after n-years controlling in the participant service area of a fire service school 15 that a demand-covering offer cannot be ensured operationally.

- Thus, it is obvious that key figures with a relation between the perspectives "Learning and development" and "Internal administrative processes" - utilization of classrooms, - utilization of guest rooms (free rooms and, if necessary, DZ as EZ use), - number and type of unutilized courses Key figures with a relation between the perspectives "Effective orientation and stakeholders" and "Learning and development" - attractiveness of the facility and the qualification offer - content development of the offer - consideration of customer wishes Key figures with a relation between the perspectives "Effective orientation and stakeholders" as well as "Economicity and regularity" - customer satisfaction after n-years Controlling in the participant service area of a fire service school 15 that a demand-covering supply can not be ensured operationally. This discrepancy between supply and demand exists validly for several years.

- This discrepancy between supply and demand has been evident for several years, but the level of apparent undercover remains relatively constant.

- However, the amount of apparent undercover remains relatively constant. If the reasons for this difference are not investigated, there is a risk that a real increase in demand will result in a backlog of training, which can only be countered with a high level of resources.

- If the reasons for this difference are not investigated, there is a risk that an actual increase in demand will result in a backlog of training, which can only be countered with a high use of resources. In order to realize an effective participant service, it is therefore necessary to create a "market overview", which provides a forecast of the expected needs.

- In order to realize an effective participant service, it is therefore necessary to create a "market overview", which provides a forecast of the expected needs. In order to unlock the desired control potential, a corresponding system must be created between reporting, operational and strategic controlling.

