# 25.06.25, 21:36

- How forest fires develop - Waldwissen. net page 1 of 3 https://www.

- Page 1 of 3 https://www.waldwissen.

- waldwissen. net/de/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/wie-waldbraende-entstehen Redaktion Forstliche Versuchs- und Forschungsanstalt Baden-Württemberg URL: /de/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/wie-waldbraende-entstehen How forest fires arise Whether forest fires arise depends on the weather, the fuel and the time of day.

- net/en/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/wie-waldbraende-entstehen Redaktion Forstliche Versuchs- und Forschungsanstalt Baden-Württemberg URL: /de/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/wie-waldbraende-entstehen How forest fires arise Whether forest fires arise depends on the weather, the fuel and the time of day. Depending on the condition, the fires can occur in various forms, such as a dangerous crown fire.

- Depending on the condition, the fires can occur in different forms, such as dangerous crown fires. Whether forest fires arise depends on the weather, the fuel and the time of day.

- Whether forest fires arise depends on the weather, the fuel and the time of day. Depending on the condition, the fires can occur in different forms, such as dangerous crown fire.

- Depending on the condition, the fires can occur in different forms, such as dangerous crown fires. The formation of forest fires depends on the weather.

- The formation of forest fires depends on the weather. The winter moisture usually protects the lower parts of the soil and plants, but even in winter there may be forest fires if there is no snow cover.

- Winter moisture usually protects the lower parts of the soil and plants, but even in winter there may be forest fires in case of lack of snow cover. The risk of forest fire increases before the new green is launched in spring and reaches a first peak at the end of April until the beginning of May.

- The risk of forest fire increases in spring before the new green is launched and reaches a first peak at the end of April until the beginning of May. The risk of fire rises again in the summer months between the end of June and the end of August, depending on the weather.

- The risk of fire then rises again in the summer months between the end of June and the end of August, depending on the weather. In spring the fire areas remain rather smaller, mostly only the dried plant remains of the previous year burn.

- In spring, the fire areas remain smaller, mostly only the dried plant remains of the previous year burn. In summer, however, the frequency of larger fire areas increases, because in summer dryness and on slightly permeable, poor soils, the entire humus layer can burn with stubbs and the upper roots up to the mineral soil.

- In summer, on the other hand, the frequency of large areas of fire increases, because in summer dryness and on slightly permeable, poor soils, the entire humus layer can burn with stubbs and the upper roots up to the mineral soil.

- Execution and spread of a forest fire Fig. 1: Forest fire. (Photo: Land Brandenburg) In addition to wood, which consists mainly of cellulose and lignin, plant parts such as leaves, needles, bark, grass or moss burn in a forest fire.

- (Photo: Land Brandenburg) In addition to wood, which consists mainly of cellulose and lignin, plant parts such as leaves, needles, bark, grass or moss burn in a forest fire.

- This always requires a source of ignition such as the leftovers of a discarded cigarette or a lightning strike.

- The gluten residues of a discarded cigarette or a lightning strike. Here, temperatures between 280-30° C ignite fine fuels such as grass, fine brushwood or needle litter.

- These fuels are characterized by a low mass and a large surface area.

- These fuels are characterized by a low mass and a large surface. The density and humidity of the fuels are decisive for their flammability.

- The density and humidity of the fuels are decisive for the flammability. Dry grass and heath are more easily flammable than dense litter or strong impact compartment.

- Dry grass and heath are more easily flammable than dense litter or strong impact chamber. Due to low humidity and dryness, the combustible materials are dried out so strongly that even low heat is sufficient to evaporate the remaining moisture and to ignite the possible fire material.

- Due to low humidity and dryness, the combustible materials are dried out so strongly that even low heat is sufficient to evaporate the remaining moisture and to ignite the possible fire material. The stronger the wind is, which brings oxygen to the fire and the drier the fuel, the faster the ground fire spreads as a narrow hem.

- The stronger the wind, which brings oxygen to the fire and the drier the fuel, the faster the ground fire spreads out as a narrow hem. Depending on its origin, soil vegetation, weather and the forest population fires can occur in various forms.

- Depending on their origin, soil vegetation, weather conditions and the forest population, fires can occur in various forms. Ground fires are the most common and full fires (also called crown fires) the most dangerous types of forest fire.

- Ground fires are the most common and full fires (also called crown fires) the most dangerous types of forest fire. Full fires always need an energy-rich 25.06.25, 21:36 How forest fires arise - forest knowledge.

- Full fires always require an energy-rich 25.06.25, 21:36 How forest fires arise - forest knowledge. net page 2 of 3 https://www.

- Page 2 of 3 https://www.waldwissen.

- waldwissen. net/de/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/wie-waldbraende-entstehen Bodenfeuer.

- net/de/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/wie-waldbraende-entstehen Bodenfire. Besides these two above mentioned forms there are moor fires and parent fires.

- In addition to these two above mentioned forms there are moor fires and tribal fires. The rarest fall of the forest fire in Central Europe is the root fire, in which hollow or dry single trees, usually caused by lightning, burn.

- The rarest fall of the forest fire in Central Europe is the root fire, in which hollow or dry single trees, usually caused by lightning, burn. A forest fire prepares itself in the beginning phase from the starting point in all directions, then follows above all in the beginning phase of the main wind direction.

- A forest fire prepares itself in all directions from the point of origin, then follows the main wind direction especially in the initial phase. In the case of larger forest fires and also in the case of full fires there are changing directions.

- In larger forest fires and also in full fires there are changing directions. Experts also say that the fire makes its own wind to have enough oxygen (see also article Forest fire species and strategies of forest fire control).

- Experts also say that the fire makes its own wind to have enough oxygen (see also forest fires and forest fire control strategies). Up into the crowns, a fire can climb over so-called "fire ladders".

- Up into the crowns, a fire can climb over so-called "fire ladders". This happens when the ground fire has enough energy from the combustion of grass, litter, heather or brushwood to dry out needles and bark from deeply loaded trees and to inflame.

- This happens when the ground fire has enough energy from the combustion of grass, litter, heather, or brushwood to dry out and inflame needles and bark of deeply loaded trees. If there are no more fuels on the ground for a fire that can be ignited by heat radiation or by flying fire, the fire expires.

- If there are no more fuels on the ground for a fire which can be ignited by heat radiation or by flying fire, the fire will go out. The same effect is achieved by extinguishing with extinguishing or rainwater and suffocating with sand.

- The same effect is achieved by extinguishing with extinguishing or rainwater and suffocating with sand. Scenarios such as flame walls on the entire surface or fires that move faster than humans are very unlikely in the forests of Germany and Austria.

- Scenarios such as flame walls on the entire area or fires, which move faster than humans, are very unlikely in the forests of Germany and Austria. Bibliography Advisor Forest Crisis Management Back to the main page of the Advisor Forest Crisis Management: Overview of the various collections of topics Back to the article overview in the: Themensammlung Waldbrand More on waldwissen.

- Literature Guide for Forest Crisis Management Back to the main page of the Guide for Forest Crisis Management: Overview of the various collections of topics Back to the article overview in the: Themensammlung Waldbrand More on forest knowledge. net Document info Authors Susanne Kaulfuss Editors Forstliche Versuchs- und Forschungsanstalt Baden-Württemberg (/en/we-ueber-uns/redaktion-fva) Contact Network Forstliches Risiko- und Krisenmanagement Forstliches Versuchs- und Forschungsanstalt Baden-Württemberg Forstökonomie und Management Wonnhaldestraße 4 79100 Freiburg Tel: +49 761 4018 231 Fax: +49 761 4018 333 E-Mail (mailto:fva@waldwissen.

- net Document info Authors Susanne Kaulfuss Editors Forstliche Versuchs- und Forschungsanstalt Baden-Württemberg (/en/we-ueber-uns/redaktion-fva) Contact Network Forest Risk and Crisis Management Forstliche Versuchs- und Forschungsanstalt Baden-Württemberg Forstökonomie und Management Wonnhaldestraße 4 79100 Freiburg Tel: +49 761 4018 231 Fax: +49 761 4018 333 E-Mail (mailto:fva@waldwissen. net) Weblink Caspers, G.

- (net) Weblink Caspers, G. (2000): Forest fire protection.

- (2000): Forest fire protection. CD-ROM.

- CD-ROM. aid.

- Aid. Missbach, K. (1982): Forest fire - prevention and control.

- Missbach, K. (1982): Forest fire - prevention and control. VEB Deutscher Landwirtschaftsverlag Berlin.

- VEB Deutscher Landwirtschaftsverlag Berlin. 3. strongly revised edition.

- 108 S. Müller, M. (2001): Causes and ecological significance of forest fires in Central Europe.

- 108 S. Müller, M. (2001): Causes and ecological significance of forest fires in Central Europe. in AFZ-Der Wald 11/2001, pp. 548-549.

- in AFZ-Der Wald 11/2001, pp. 548-549. Müller, C.; et al.

- Müller, C.; et al. (2000): Waldbrandschutz - manuscript of the Bund-Länder-Arbeitsgruppe Waldbrandschutz.

- (2000): Forest fire protection - manuscript of the Bund-Länder-Arbeitsgruppe Waldbrandschutz. in Caspers, G.

- in Caspers, G. (2000): Forest fire protection.

- (2000): Forest fire protection. CD-ROM.

- CD-ROM. aid.

- Aid. Schretzmann, Rainer (2001): Forest fire protection - an important information about the correct behaviour in the forest.

- Schretzmann, Rainer (2001): Forest fire protection - an important information on the correct behaviour in the forest. aid 1354/2001.

- Aid 1354/2001. Themensammlung Waldbrand (/de/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/themensammlung-waldbrand) Forest fires in Central Europe are mostly caused by negligent action, only rarely in a natural way.

- Themensammlung Waldbrand (/de/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/themensammlung-waldbrand) Forest fires in Central Europe are mostly caused by negligent action, rarely in a natural way.

- This results in major damage every year throughout Europe. The forest fire collection informs, among other things, about forecasting, prevention and fight against forest fires.

- A new method warns against forest fire (/de/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/waldbrand-fruehbekennung) The innovative instrument FireLess2 informs Förster and firefighters online about how it is ordered for moisture in the forest floor and how it changes.

- A new method warns against forest fire (/en/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/waldbrand-fruehrecognizierung) The innovative instrument FireLess2 informs Förster and firefighters online about how the moisture in the forest floor is ordered and how it changes.

- Forest fire database for Austria (de/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/waldbrand-datenbank-oesterreich) Forest fire was not a topic in Austria for a long time, this has now changed.

- Forest fire database for Austria (de/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/waldbrand-datenbank-oesterreich) Forest fire was not a topic in Austria for a long time, this has now changed. In spring 2013 a forest fire database went online and in a forest fire blog is continuously informed about fire risk and events.

- In spring 2013 a forest fire database went online and a forest fire blog keeps up to date on fire risk and events. 25.06.25, 21:36 How forest fires arise - forest knowledge.

- 25.06.25, 21:36 How forest fires develop - Waldwissen. net page 3 of 3 https://www.

- Page 3 of 3 https://www.waldwissen.

- waldwissen. net/de/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/wie-waldbraende-entstanden (https://forest-risk management.

- net/en/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/wie-waldbraende-entstanden (https://forest-riskmanagement.de/) Original article Kaulfuss Susanne (2016): How forest fires arise.

- de/) Original article Kaulfuss Susanne (2016): How forest fires arise. http:/www.

- http:/www.waldwissen.

- waldwissen. net, 07.04.2016 Online version 01.01.2020

