# 2.

- Statements regarding the drop height (in combination with speed) are of course dependent on the container type, since the initial water jet and its decomposition depend very strongly on the container type as well as the selected type of opening (for example for the Semat full or spray jet and central discharge).

- The drop height (in combination with the speed) is of course dependent on the type of container, since the initial water jet and its decomposition depend very strongly on the type of container and the type of ventilation chosen (for example, in the case of the Semat full or spray jet and central discharge). Grass and reed fire Lower extinguishing intensity, because low fire load, but high fire propagation speed, therefore wider and longer drop (high speed (about 50 to 70 kt = 90 to 130 km/h), normal drop height (about 75 to 100 ft = 23 to 30 m) with less water per sqm (about 0.6 to 1 l/m2).

- Grass and reed fires Lower extinguishing intensity because of low fire load, but high fire propagation speed, hence wider and longer discharge (high speed (about 50 to 70 kt = 90 to 130 km/h), normal drop height (about 75 to 100 ft = 23 to 30 m) with less water per sqm (about 0.6 to 1 l/m2). Busch and heath fire Higher extinguishing intensity required, therefore lower flight speed, therefore smaller impact area with more water per m2 (about 1.5 to 1.8 l/m2) (lesser 8 The values refer primarily to an Airbus AS332 SuperPuma with a Bambi bucket 2,000 liters.

- Busch and heath fire Higher extinguishing intensity required, therefore lower flight speed, therefore smaller impact area with more water per m2 (about 1.5 to 1.8 l/m2) (less than 8 The values refer primarily to an Airbus AS332 SuperPuma with a Bambi bucket 2,000 liters. Their transfer to other aircraft and containers must be evaluated in individual cases.

- Your transfer to other aircraft and containers must be evaluated in individual cases. Page 32 Speed (about 30 to 40 kt = 55 to 75 km/h, lowest safe drop or flight altitude).

- Page 32 Speed (about 30 to 40 kt = 55 to 75 km/h, lowest safe drop or flight height). Point fire (for example, single tree after lightning strike in rough terrain or new fire site as point or spot fire in front of the fire front by spark flight), therefore drop at low speed at higher altitude.

- Point fire (e.g. single tree after lightning strike in rough terrain or new fire site as point or spot fire in front of the fire front by spark flight), therefore drop at low speed at higher altitude. It is recommended a speed of ≥15kt / ~30km/h and a flight height corresponding to the triple rotor diameter (3xD).

- It is recommended to have a speed of ≥15kt / ~30km/h and a flight height corresponding to the triple rotor diameter (3xD). This results in almost no effect of the rotor beam (downwash) on the ground, which reduces the risk that the fire will be fuelled or even driven forward.

- This results in almost no effect of the rotor jet (downwash) on the ground any more, which reduces the risk that the fire will be inflamed or even driven forward. Point drops from the floating flight or deep and slow approaches can be avoided in principle.

- Point drops from the hovering flight or deep and slow approaches must be avoided in principle. They lead to the inflaming of the fire and to the swirling of sparks / burning material, which can have significant consequences.

- They lead to the inflaming of the fire and to the swirling of sparks / burning material, which can have significant consequences. Point throws over larger fires can be dangerous due to the thermal, the pollutant9 and soot load as well as possibly also less sour material.

- Point drops over larger fires can be dangerous due to the thermals, the pollutant9 and soot load as well as possibly also less sour material. This can lead to heavy (following) damage or even the failure of aircraft engines!

- This can lead to heavy (follow-up) damage or even failure of aircraft engines! Only on steep slopes with individual burning vegetation islands can point discards be the appropriate means of choice.

- Only on steep slopes with individual burning vegetation islands can point discards be the suitable means of choice. Here, however, usually an arch throw (aircraft flies on, turns steeply off before slope and the ALB on the leash swings to the slope, thereby triggering the drop) will be the better choice.

- Here, however, due to the position on the slope, a bow throw (aircraft flies on, turns steeply off in front of the slope and the ALB on the leash swings to the slope, thereby triggering the drop) will be the better choice. However, this sets one in the mountain flying plant with extinguishing water outside load containers (and thus changing loads during the flight!)

- However, this releases a pilot who is very experienced in the mountain flying industry with extinguishing water outside load containers (and thus changing loads during the flight!) and who is familiar with local aviation in the region.

- very experienced pilots who are familiar with local aviation in the region. 9 firefighting sets with helicopters over objects (buildings, garbage dumps, etc.) are not unproblematic due to the harmful material load, especially in hovering flight.

- 9 fire extinguishers with helicopters over objects (buildings, garbage dumps, etc.) are not unproblematic due to the harmful material load, especially in floating flight. Risk & effort and benefits are usually in no proportion!

- Risk & effort and benefits are usually in no proportion! Page 33 Container filling For the purpose of water transport to remote areas, a filling of containers can be carried out with the help of the lifting screwdriver.

- Page 33 Container filling For the purpose of water transport to remote areas, a filling of containers can be carried out with the help of the lifting screwdriver.

- This is done in a floating flight above the container. An instructor as well as an intervention on the ground are necessary.

- An instructor as well as an intervention on the ground are necessary. Likewise, ALB and bottom tanks must be suitable and compatible for this operation, for example, the bottom tank must be sufficiently stable and secured on the ground.

