# 4.2 Erhebung und Bewertung des Gefahrenpotentials

- 14 18 1 4 11 17 16 21 23 24 27a 27b 28 29 2 31 33 34 scale 0 1.5 km = sick persons = industrial and commercial enterprises = urban enterprises = floodplains = other properties 3 5 6 7 8 9 10 12 13 15 30 19 20 22 49 25 32 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 45 43 46 47 48 50 51 52 53 54 scale 0 1.5 km 55 59 60 61 56 57 Objects of "Special fire protection importance" Summary In the city area of Mannheim, numerous objects and areas of special importance for fire protection / fire brigades are available. The requirements for fire brigades with regard to exposure times, functional strengths and qualifications are partly higher than the requirements according to the classical application scenario "Critical apartment fire" .

- The requirements for the fire brigade regarding arrival times, functional strengths and qualifications are sometimes higher for these objects than the requirements according to the classic application scenario "Critical Housing Fire". Consequently, the recommendation for the functional occupation plan of the professional fire brigade is based not only on the classical scenario "Critical Housing Fire" but also on further deployment scenarios.

- Consequently, the recommendation on the functional plan of the professional fire brigade is not only based on the classical scenario "Critical housing fire" but also on further deployment scenarios. Fire protection requirements plan of the city of Mannheim, as of: 04.04.2013 101 The Fire Brigade Act (FwG) of the state of Baden-Württemberg demands in §3: "Each municipality has to set up, equip and maintain an efficient fire brigade corresponding to the local conditions with an orderly extinguishing and rescue service at its expense.

- Fire protection requirements plan of the City of Mannheim, as of: 04.04.2013 101 The Fire Brigade Act (FwG) of the State of Baden-Württemberg demands in §3: "At its expense, each municipality has to set up, equip and maintain an efficient fire brigade corresponding to local conditions with an orderly firefighting and rescue service. "The legislator has defined no protection goal, because fire protection is a municipal task and accordingly the protection goal must be defined in accordance with the local conditions. The "Arbeitsgemeinschaft der Leiter der Berufsfeuerwehren in der Bundesrepublik Deutschland (AGBF-Bund)" (Arbeitsgemeinschaft der Leiter der Berufsfeueren in der Bundesrepublik Deutschland (AGBF-Bund))" (Arbeitsgemeinschaft der Arbeitsfeuerwehren in der Bundesrepublik Deutschland)" (Arbeitsgemeinschaft der Arbeitsfeuerfeuerwehren) ("Arbewehrungsgemeinschaft für Großständen) ("Arbestimmpfung").

- The "Arbeitsgemeinschaft der Leiter der Berufsfeuerwehren in der Bundesrepublik Deutschland (AGBF-Bund)" (Working Group of the Leaders of the Occupational Fire Brigades in the Federal Republic of Germany) has designed the AGBF protection target recommendation for big cities. This calls for a time chain of 17 minutes for the "critical housing fire" within which the planned measures have to take effect.

- This calls for a time chain of 17 minutes for the "critical housing fire" within which the planned measures have to take effect. In addition, the Ministry of the Interior and the Landesfeuerwehrverband Baden-Württemberg (LFV BaWü) have developed a protection target definition for fire brigades ("Instructions on the performance of the fire brigade", as of January 2008).

- In addition, the Ministry of the Interior and the Landesfeuerwehrverband Baden-Württemberg (LFV BaWü) have developed a protection target definitions for fire brigades ("Notes on the performance of fire brigades", as of January 2008). These recommendations were taken into account in the definition of the protection target / planning basis for the city of Mannheim.

- These recommendations were taken into account in the definition of the protection target / planning basis for the city of Mannheim. However, the protection objective and the need for operational security in large cities cannot be determined solely by the scenario of the critical housing fire.

- However, the protection objective and the need for operational security in large cities are not to be determined exclusively by the scenario of the critical housing fire. In order to take into account the danger potential of a big city in the protection target definition, further, specific application scenarios for the planning of needs should be considered.

- In order to take into account the danger potential of a large city in the definition of the protection objective, further, specific application scenarios for the planning of requirements are to be considered. *) Fire on the upper floor of a multi-storey building in the case of damaged rescue routes / see "standardised damage event" in: Quality criteria for the planning of requirements of fire brigades in cities / AGBF Bund, 16.09.1998.

