# 17.520

- 41 0 Functional occupation "operatively" round-the-clock (365 days / 24 hours) Time range "workdays during the day" Area WAZ # Functions WAZ # Functions Fire protection requirements plan of the city of Mannheim, as of: 04.04.2013 172 Summary "Human Resources & Personnel Needs" Overview Total personnel needs when implementing all measures Note: "Non-fire-weir technical positions are not used to fill the functional occupation plan. These are employees, for example, in the administration of the fire brigade without fire-weir technical training.

- These are employees, for example, in the administration of the fire brigade without fire brigade training. hD gD mD gD mD day service with integration service 5 25 8 - - 38 - 38 day service Non-Fw-Technical - - - - - - 13.5 13.5 Wachsteilungen / Einsatzdienst - - - 12 256 268 - 268 SOLL job plan after implementation of all measures 5 25 8 12 256 306 13.5 319.5 Organizational unit / area of personnel requirements [TZÄ] day service with integration service guard departments intermediate sum not FW-techn.

- hD gD mD gD mD Tagesdienst mit Integrationsdienst 5 25 8 - - 38 - 38 Tagesdienst Nicht-Fw-Technisch - - - - - - 13.5 13.5 Wachsteilungen / Einsatzdienst - - - 12 256 268 - 268 SOLL Postplan after implementation of all measures 5 25 8 12 256 306 13.5 319.5 Organisational unit / area of personnel requirements [VZÄ] Tagesdienst mit Integrationsdienst Wachsteilungen Intermediate sum not FW- techn. Total amount In the implementation of all measures listed in the fire protection demand plan and the updating of the personnel management system Mannheim results in a total personnel requirement of 319.5 VZÄ.

- Total In the implementation of all measures listed in the fire protection requirements plan and the updating of the personnel management, the professional fire brigade Mannheim has a total personnel requirement of 319.5 VZE. This is divided into 5 VZE for officials of the higher fire service technical service, 37 VZE for officials of the high fire service technical service and 264 VZE for officials of the middle fire service technical service.

- This is divided into 5 VZEs for officials of the higher fire department technical service, 37 VZEs for officials of the high fire department technical service and 264 VZEs for officials of the medium fire department technical service. In addition there are 13.5 VZEs not technical personnel, such as the employees in the administration.

- In addition, there are 13.5 VZEs not fire-fighting personnel, such as the employees in the administration. Accordingly, 306 VZEs are available for the emergency service.

- As a result, 306 FTEs are available for the emergency service. A part of the staff (e.g. higher service and parts of the upscale and medium service) performs day-to-day service with integration service.

- Part of the staff (e.g. higher level of service and parts of the upper and middle level of service) perform day-to-day service with integration service. These employees are employed in the field work, but are also available to the operational service with a certain amount of time.

