# 3.200

- 8.760 0.37 - Registration period: 01.01.2010 - 31.12.2010 Not time-critical Time-critical Total The following usage keywords were evaluated as not time-critical: inspection fire, mutual assistance, work orders, tree/forest on roadway, tree/forest threatens to fall, bees, roof avalanches/ice cones, open area under water, FSK alarm, odour pollution, water pollution, H1, fighting agent find, truck salvage, loose components, inspection assistance performance, oil damage small, car salvage, pillars fences other fell, road pollution, animal salvage, animals, animal transport, fuel runs out, door-opening vehicle, overland aid, bird flu, water in the basement, water in the apartment, water vapour remote heating, water pipe break, wasps, tree/ast on buildings, tree/ast on cars, construction fence fell, roof fences covered, roof tiles threaten to crash, supply plant under water, storm, water on the roadway, water in the industry.

- Statistically, approximately 0.23 time-critical missions were performed each hour, which corresponds to approximately 5.5 missions per day. In addition, there are the non-time-critical missions, which also have to be performed by the fire brigade (0.13 missions per hour).

- In addition, there are the non-time-critical missions, which also have to be performed by the fire brigade (0.13 missions per hour). This corresponds to a rate of approx.

- This corresponds to a rate of approximately 3 bets per day.

- 3 missions per day. Statistically, the fire brigade moves to rd.

- Statistically, the fire brigade moves out of approximately 9 missions every day.

