# 2.

- a situation in which there is a sufficient probability that in the foreseeable future neighbourhood assistance (§ 23 para. 1 and 2) will be requested or ordered to provide extra-local assistance (§ 23 para. 3 to 5), which requires a special alert preparedness of the forces and means of civil protection to prepare for the fight against disasters and exceptional events. § 2 NKatSG - Civil Protection Authorities (1) 1The task of civil protection is assigned to the counties and non-circular cities as well as to the cities of Cuxhaven and Hildesheim (sub-divisional civil protection authorities).

- § 2 NKatSG - Civil Protection Authorities (1) 1The task of civil protection is the delegated sphere of activity of the counties and non-circular cities as well as the cities of Cuxhaven and Hildesheim (lower civil protection authorities). 2The competence of the large independent cities as well as of the independent municipalities is excluded (§ 17 sentence 1 of the Lower Saxony Municipal Constitution Act).

- 2The competence of the large independent cities and the independent municipalities is excluded (§ 17 sentence 1 of the Lower Saxony Municipal Constitution Act). 3Upper Civil Protection Authority is the Lower Saxony State Office for Fire and Civil Protection.

- 3Upper Civil Protection Authority is the Lower Saxony State Office for Fire and Civil Protection. 4Upper Civil Protection Authority is the Ministry responsible for Home Affairs.

- 4The Chief Civil Protection Authority is the Ministry responsible for Home Affairs. (2) 1The Supreme Civil Protection Authority is empowered to determine by regulation that several lower civil protection authorities perform the task of civil protection together.

- (2) 1The Supreme Civil Protection Authority shall be empowered to determine by regulation that several lower civil protection authorities jointly perform the function of civil protection. 2It shall also determine in the regulation who in this case is the lower civil protection authority within the meaning of this law.

- 2It also determines in the regulation who in this case is the lower civil protection authority within the meaning of this law. § 3 NKatSG - Supervisory Authorities (1) The upper civil protection authority carries out the technical supervision of the lower civil protection authorities.

- § 3 NKatSG - Supervisory authorities (1) The upper civil protection authority carries out the technical supervision of the lower civil protection authorities. (2) 1The top supervisory authority is the supreme civil protection authority.

- (2) 1The top-level supervisor shall lead the supreme civil protection authority. 2The responsibilities of other ministries shall remain unaffected.

- 2The responsibilities of other ministries remain unaffected. § 4 NKatSG - Participation of other authorities and agencies 1Other authorities, departments and other bodies carrying out public tasks contribute to their responsibilities or through mutual assistance in civil protection.

- § 4 NKatSG - Participation of other authorities and bodies 1Other authorities, departments and other bodies responsible for public tasks contribute to their responsibilities or through mutual assistance in civil protection. 2Your responsibilities remain unaffected.

- 2Your responsibilities remain unaffected. 3In the event of a disaster, they should act only in agreement with the Civil Protection Authority.

- 3In the event of a disaster, they should act only in agreement with the Civil Protection Authority. § 4a NKatSG - Participation of hospitals Hospitals participating in emergency care are involved in civil protection in accordance with § 19 of the Lower Saxony Hospital Act.

- § 4a NKatSG - Participation of hospitals Hospitals participating in emergency care are involved in civil protection in accordance with § 19 of the Lower Saxony Hospital Act. §§ 5 - 11, Second Section - Preparation measures § 5 NKatSG - Preparation obligation 1The lower civil protection authority takes the necessary preparatory measures for the fight against disasters and exceptional events in its district.

- §§ 5 - 11, Second Section - Preparatory Measures § 5 NKatSG - Preparing Obligation 1The lower civil protection authority takes the necessary preparatory measures for the fight against disasters and exceptional events in its district. 2It takes into account the measures taken by the municipalities and velvet communities in its district within the framework of its task.

- 2It takes into account the measures taken by the municipalities and velvet communities located in its district within the scope of its tasks. § 5a NKatSG - Critical Infrastructures stored: 25.06.2025, 21:28 h © 2025 Wolters Kluwer Deutschland GmbH 6 / 23 (1) Critical Infrastructures within the meaning of this law are

