# 3.

- 3The Ministry of Home Affairs shall be authorised, by regulation in agreement with the Ministries responsible for critical infrastructure covered by the Regulation, to designate a contact point to the competent Ministry of the Interior, to notify any change in emergency planning and to forward emergency planning on request.

- 3The Ministry of Home Affairs shall be authorised, by regulation in agreement with the specialised ministries responsible for critical infrastructure covered by the Regulation, to specify the requirements for emergency planning in accordance with paragraphs 1 to 3 of the second sentence.

- (3) The specialised ministries shall, without prejudice to their other tasks and obligations, take the necessary preparatory measures for the management and coordination of the maintenance of services in the event of a failure of critical infrastructure.

- 3. The specialised ministries shall, without prejudice to their other tasks and obligations, take the necessary preparatory measures for the management and coordination of the maintenance of services in the event of a failure of critical infrastructure. (4) 1The Supreme Civil Protection Authority shall set up a coordinating body for critical infrastructure.

- (4) 1The Supreme Civil Protection Authority shall establish a coordinating body for critical infrastructures. 2The coordinating body shall record the critical infrastructures registered in accordance with § 8b para. 3 BSIG and the critical infrastructures reported in accordance with paragraph 6 sentence 4.

- 2The coordinating body shall record the critical infrastructures registered in accordance with § 8b para. 3 BSIG and the critical infrastructures reported in accordance with paragraph 6 sentence 4. 3It shall coordinate cross-resort work in the area of critical infrastructures and assist the specialist ministries in their tasks.

- 3It coordinates cross-resort work in the area of critical infrastructures and assists the ministries in their tasks. (5) 1The state government is empowered to lay down by regulation the criteria for determining critical infrastructures, in particular sectoral thresholds relevant to the importance of the community.

- (5) 1The State Government shall be empowered to lay down, by regulation, the criteria for determining critical infrastructures, in particular sectoral thresholds relevant to the importance of the community. 2 The State Government Regulation may also provide that organisations and bodies meeting the criteria laid down in the Regulation referred to in the first sentence must notify this, and in this case the Regulation shall also lay down more detailed provisions on the notification procedure.

- 2 The national government regulation may also stipulate that organisations and bodies meeting the criteria of the regulation referred to in the first sentence shall notify this, and in this case the regulation shall also lay down more detailed provisions on the notification procedure. (6) 1Organizations and bodies meeting the criteria of a regulation referred to in the first sentence of paragraph 5 shall be classified by the competent authority on its own initiative.

- 6. 1Organisations and bodies meeting the criteria of a Regulation referred to in the first sentence of paragraph 5 shall be classified by the competent authority on their own initiative. 2The classification shall take place for a maximum period of three years.

- 2The classification shall take place for a maximum period of three years. 3A classification may, at its request, also take place for organisations and bodies of great importance to the community which do not meet the criteria for classification whose failure or impairment results in effects comparable to those referred to in paragraph 1 (2); in this case, they shall be considered critical infrastructures within the meaning of this Act.

- 3A classification may, at its request, also be made for organisations and bodies of great importance to the community which do not meet the criteria for classification whose failure or impairment results in consequences comparable to those referred to in paragraph 1 (2), in which case they shall be regarded as critical infrastructures within the meaning of this Act. 4The competent authority shall notify the coordinating body for critical infrastructures of the organisations and bodies it has classified.

- 4The competent authority reports to the coordinating body for critical infrastructures the organisations and institutions it classified. § 6 NKatSG - Civil Protection Staff and State Disaster Protection Staff stored: 25.06.2025, 21:28 h © 2025 Wolters Kluwer Deutschland GmbH 7 / 23 (1) 1The lower civil protection authority establishes a civil protection staff.

- § 6 NKatSG - Civil Protection Staff and State Disaster Protection Staff stored: 25.06.2025, 21:28 h © 2025 Wolters Kluwer Deutschland GmbH 7 / 23 (1) 1The lower civil protection authority establishes a civil protection staff. 2The head administrative officer appoints the members and heads the staff.

- 2The Chief Administrative Officer shall appoint the members and direct the staff. 3The Civil Protection Staff shall represent the authorities, services and forces involved in disasters.

- 3The Civil Protection Staff shall be represented by the authorities, services and forces involved in disasters. (2) The Staff shall advise the lower civil protection authority in its preparatory activities.

- 2. The staff shall advise the lower civil protection authority on its preparatory measures. (3) 1The highest civil protection authority shall establish a national civil protection unit.

- (3) 1The Supreme Civil Protection Authority shall set up a State Disaster Protection Staff. 2The State Secretary or the State Secretary of the Supreme Civil Protection Authority shall convene the members, convene the State Disaster Protection Staff and initiate it.

- 2The State Secretary or the State Secretary of the Supreme Civil Protection Authority convenes the members, convenes the State Disaster Protection Staff and initiates it. 3The Upper Civil Protection Authority supports the State Disaster Protection Staff.

- 3The Upper Civil Protection Authority supports the National Disaster Protection Staff. § 7 NKatSG - Disaster Risks (1) 1The Lower Civil Protection Authority investigates the dangers of disasters in its district.

- § 7 NKatSG - Disaster hazards (1) 1The lower civil protection authority examines which disasters are threatening in its district. 2It takes into account the dangers identified by the municipalities and velvet communities within the scope of their tasks.

- 2It takes into account the dangers identified by the municipalities and velvet communities within the scope of their tasks. (2) 1The Supreme Civil Protection Authority or a regional authority designated by it is constantly monitoring the current situation and the imminent disasters.

- (2) 1The Supreme Civil Protection Authority or a national authority designated by it is constantly monitoring the current situation and the imminent disasters. 2The Supreme Civil Protection Authority continuously analyses and assesses the risks that may lead to an event of national scope (§ 27a).

- 2The Supreme Civil Protection Authority continuously analyses and assesses the risks that may lead to an event of national scope (§ 27a). 3It draws up and writes on a nationwide security situation.

- 3It shall draw up and continue to write a national safety situation picture. 4The safety situation picture shall contain a description and comparative assessment of the risks referred to in sentence 2 and shall formulate recommendations to prevent these risks and to prepare the fight against disasters and exceptional events of national scope.

- 4The safety picture shall contain a description and comparative assessment of the risks referred to in the second sentence and shall make recommendations to avoid these risks and to prepare for the fight against disasters and exceptional events of national scope. 5The responsibilities of the ministries shall not be affected by the sentences 1 to 4.

- 5The responsibilities of the specialist ministries remain unaffected by the sentences 1 to 4. (3) The owners, owners, owners and owners of land and installations from which disaster hazards can arise are obliged to the Civil Protection Authority to provide information necessary for the preparation of the disaster response.

- (3) The owners, owners, owners and owners of land and installations from which disaster hazards can arise are obliged to the Civil Protection Authority for information necessary for the preparation of the disaster response. § 8 NKatSG - Registration of the forces (1) 1The lower civil protection authority records the forces and resources available in its district for the fight against disasters and exceptional events.

- § 8 NKatSG - Registration of the forces (1) 1The lower civil protection authority records the forces and resources available in its district for the fight against disasters and exceptional events. 2It prepares for their rapid deployment.

- 2It shall prepare for their rapid deployment. (2) 1Neighbouring lower civil protection authorities shall inform each other of the forces and resources suitable for neighbourhood assistance.

- (2) 1Neighbouring lower civil protection authorities shall inform each other of the forces and resources suitable for neighbourhood assistance. 2They shall agree on the means of re quirement.

- § 9 NKatSG - Management personnel, training facility of the country (1) 1The lower civil protection authority ensures the training of management personnel and prepares the formation of technical operational lines.

- § 9 NKatSG - Management personnel, training institution of the country (1) 1The lower civil protection authority provides for the training of management personnel and prepares the formation of technical operational management. 2The highest civil protection authority ensures the training of management personnel of the central national units and mobile management staff established in accordance with § 12 para. 2.

- 2The Supreme Civil Protection Authority provides for the training of management personnel of the central national units and mobile management staff established in accordance with § 12 para. 2. 3The training and further training of management personnel in accordance with sentences 1 and 2 shall be carried out at the training facility of the country in accordance with paragraph 2.

- 3The training and further training of the management personnel referred to in the first and second sentences shall be carried out at the training institution of the country referred to in paragraph 2. 4In individual cases, third parties may be appointed to carry out the training and further training.

- 4In individual cases, third parties may be assigned to carry out training and training. (2) 1The Supreme Civil Protection Authority offers training and training courses for management staff and central training content at a training facility in the country.

- (2) 1The Supreme Civil Protection Authority shall provide training and training courses for management staff and central training content at a training facility in the country. 2The costs shall be borne by the country.

- 2The resulting costs are borne by the country. § 10 NKatSG - Civil Protection Plan (1) 1The lower civil protection authority establishes a civil protection plan for its district.

- § 10 NKatSG - Civil Protection Plan (1) 1The lower civil protection authority establishes a civil protection plan for its district. 2The civil protection plan shall contain the external emergency plans to be prepared according to §§ 10a to 10c and for other special danger situations further stored: 25.06.2025, 21:28 h © 2025 Wolters Kluwer Deutschland GmbH 8 / 23 Special plans.

- 2The civil protection plan shall contain the external emergency plans to be prepared according to §§ 10a to 10c and for other special danger situations further stored: 25.06.2025, 21:28 h © 2025 Wolters Kluwer Deutschland GmbH 8 / 23 Special plans.

- (2) The civil protection plan shall include, in particular, the alert procedure, the emergency measures to be taken in the event of a disaster, as well as the forces and means of action.

- 2. The Civil Protection Plan shall include, in particular, the alert procedure, the emergency measures to be taken in the event of a disaster, as well as the forces and means of action. (3) An information technology procedure provided by the country shall be used to carry out the tasks referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2.

- (3) In order to fulfil the tasks referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2, an information technology procedure provided by the country shall be used. § 10a NKatSG - External contingency plans for establishments with hazardous substances (1) 1The lower civil protection authority shall, for establishments of the upper class within the meaning of Article 3(3) of Directive 2012/18/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 July 2012 on the control of major-accident hazards involving dangerous substances, amending and subsequently repealing Council Directive 96/82/EC (OJ L 347, 20.12.2012, p.

- § 10a NKatSG - External contingency plans for establishments with dangerous substances (1) 1The lower civil protection authority shall draw up external contingency plans for establishments of the upper class within the meaning of Article 3(3) of Directive 2012/18/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 July 2012 on the control of major-accident hazards involving dangerous substances, amending and subsequently repealing Council Directive 96/82/EC (OJ EU No L 197 p. 1), as amended, within two years of the notification of the information referred to in the second sentence of this paragraph.

- EU No L 197 p. 1) as amended within two years of transmission of the information referred to in the second sentence, external emergency plans for the implementation of civil protection measures outside those establishments. 2The operator of such an establishment shall provide the lower civil protection authority with the safety report in accordance with Article 10 of Directive 2012/18/EU, the internal emergency plan in accordance with Article 12 of Directive 2012/18/EU and the further information necessary for the preparation of the external emergency plan prior to entry into service or before the change leading to entry into the upper class; the operator of an establishment existing on 30 September 2017 shall provide the necessary information without delay.

- 2The operator of such an establishment shall provide the lower civil protection authority with the safety report referred to in Article 10 of Directive 2012/18/EU, the internal emergency plan referred to in Article 12 of Directive 2012/18/EU and the further information necessary for the preparation of the external emergency plan before putting into service or before the change leading to the entry into the upper class; the operator of an establishment existing on 30 September 2017 shall provide the necessary information without delay. 3The lower civil protection authority may, on the basis of the safety report in consultation with the authority responsible for the approval of the installation, waive the preparation of an external emergency plan; the decision shall be documented on the grounds.

- 3The lower civil protection authority may refrain from drawing up an external emergency plan on the basis of the safety report in consultation with the authority responsible for approving the installation; the decision shall be documented on the basis of the reasons. 4The lower civil protection authority shall inform the upper civil protection authority and the municipalities located in its district of the external emergency plans.

- 4The lower civil protection authority shall inform the upper civil protection authority and the municipalities located in its district of the external emergency plans. (2) An external emergency plan shall be drawn up in order to:

