# 7.

- Arrangements for informing the forces of foreign states in the event of a serious accident with possible cross-border consequences. (4) 1The draft external emergency plans shall be publicly interpreted by the lower civil protection authority for a period of one month without the personal information subject to data protection.

- (4) 1The draft external emergency plans shall be publicly interpreted by the lower civil protection authority for a period of one month without the personal data subject to data protection. 2Unpublished information on the operation shall, at the operator's request, be unrecognised for the protection of business secrets, provided that the interest of the operator outweighs the public interest in the information; the draft shall be transmitted to the operator at least one week before the notification of the interpretation (set 3).

- 2Unpublished information on the operation shall, at the operator's request, be unrecognizable for the protection of operational or commercial secrecy, insofar as the interest of the operator outweighs the public interest in information; the draft shall be transmitted to the operator at least one week before the notification of the interpretation (set 3). 3Places and duration of the interpretation shall be made public at least one week prior to the design, indicating that concerns and suggestions may be raised during the design period.

- 3Place and duration of the interpretation shall be made public at least one week before the interpretation, indicating that concerns and suggestions may be raised during the period of interpretation. 4The concerns and suggestions expressed in due time shall be reviewed and the results communicated.

- 4The concerns and suggestions expressed in due time will be reviewed and the results communicated. 5If more than 50 people have expressed concerns and suggestions with essentially the same content, the communication of the result of the examination may be replaced by the fact that these persons are given access to the result; the post where the result of the examination can be viewed during the hours of service must be made public.

- 5If more than 50 persons have expressed concerns and suggestions with substantially the same content, the communication of the result of the examination may be replaced by allowing them to see the result; the body at which the result of the examination can be viewed during hours of service shall be made public. 6If the draft of the external emergency plan is amended or supplemented in accordance with the interpretation, it shall be reinterpreted.

- 6If the draft of the external emergency plan is amended or supplemented after its interpretation, it shall be re-examined. 7It may be determined that concerns or suggestions can only be raised with regard to the amended or supplemented parts.

- 7It can be determined that concerns or suggestions can only be raised with regard to the amended or supplemented parts. 8If the amendment or addition of the draft does not affect the main features of the external emergency plan or if the amendments or additions are of minor importance, a new public interpretation may be waived.

- 8If the amendment or addition of the draft does not affect the main features of the external emergency plan or if the amendments or additions are of minor importance, a new public interpretation may be waived. (5) 1The lower civil protection authority shall review, test and update the external emergency plans at appropriate intervals, not later than three years, taking into account the internal emergency plan, and where necessary.

- 5. 1The lower civil protection authority shall review, test and update the external emergency plans at appropriate intervals, not later than three years, taking into account the internal emergency plan, and, where necessary, update them. 2Changes in establishments and emergency services, new technical knowledge and knowledge on how to act in the event of major accidents shall be taken into account.

- 3The lower civil protection authority may review the decision referred to in the third sentence of paragraph 1, provided that the reasons for this decision are not fulfilled, it shall draw up an emergency plan in accordance with the first sentence of paragraph 1.

- 3The lower civil protection authority may review the decision referred to in the third sentence of paragraph 1, provided that the reasons for this decision are not fulfilled, it shall draw up an emergency plan in accordance with the first sentence of paragraph 1. 4If the operator has submitted an updated safety report in accordance with the provisions of the accident law, it shall be obliged to forward it to the lower civil protection authority without delay.

- 4If the operator has submitted an updated safety report in accordance with the provisions of the accident law, it shall be obliged to forward it immediately to the lower civil protection authority. 5The operator shall, upon request, provide the lower civil protection authority with any further information necessary for the measures referred to in the first and third sentences.

- 5The operator shall, upon request, provide the lower civil protection authority with any further information necessary for the actions referred to in the first and third sentences. 6The draft external emergency plans updated in accordance with the first sentence shall be interpreted publicly; paragraph 4 shall apply mutatis mutandis.

- 6The draft external contingency plans updated in accordance with the first sentence shall be publicly drafted; paragraph 4 shall apply mutatis mutandis. 7If the main features of the external contingency plan are not affected by the update or if the changes and additions are of minor importance, a public interpretation may be waived.

- 7If the main features of the external emergency plan are not affected by the update or if the changes and additions are of minor importance, a public interpretation may be waived. (6) 1If another Member State of the European Union could be affected by the cross-border effects of an establishment referred to in the first sentence of paragraph 1, the lower civil protection authority shall provide sufficient information to the authorities designated by the Member State in order to enable them to take the necessary emergency planning measures.

- 6. 1If another Member State of the European Union could be affected by the cross-border effects of an establishment referred to in the first sentence of paragraph 1, the lower civil protection authority shall provide sufficient information to the authorities designated by the Member State in order to enable them to take the necessary emergency planning measures. 2. The lower civil protection authority shall inform the authorities designated by the Member State of their decisions pursuant to the third sentence of paragraph 1 where it relates to an establishment situated close to the territory of the Member State.

- 2 The lower civil protection authority shall inform the authorities designated by the Member State of their decisions pursuant to the third sentence of paragraph 1 if it relates to an establishment situated close to the territory of the Member State. (7) 1In the event of a serious emergency in an establishment referred to in the first sentence of paragraph 1, the lower civil protection authority shall promote enhanced cooperation among the affected persons in the civil protection measures to be taken.

- (7) 1In the event of a serious emergency in an establishment referred to in the first sentence of paragraph 1, the lower civil protection authority shall encourage enhanced cooperation between the parties concerned in the civil protection measures to be taken. 2The lower civil protection authority shall ensure that the emergency plans are applied without delay as soon as a serious accident or uncontrolled event occurs, which is expected to result in a serious accident due to its nature.

- 2The lower civil protection authority shall ensure that the contingency plans are applied without delay as soon as a serious accident or uncontrolled event occurs, which is expected to result in a serious accident due to its nature. § 10b NKatSG - External contingency plans for waste management facilities (1) 1The lower civil protection authority shall provide Category A waste management facilities in accordance with Annex III to Directive 2006/21/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 March 2006 on the management of waste from the extractive industries and amending Directive 2004/35/EC (OJ L 347, 20.12.2006, p.

- § 10b NKatSG - External contingency plans for waste management facilities (1) 1The lower civil protection authority shall provide Category A waste management facilities in accordance with Annex III to Directive 2006/21/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 March 2006 on the management of waste from the extractive industries and amending Directive 2004/35/EC (OJ EU No L 102 p. 15), as amended by Regulation (EC) No 596/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 June 2009 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2009, p.

- 15), as amended by Regulation (EC) No 596/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 June 2009 (OJ EU No L 188, p. 14), in which it is stored: 25.06.2025, 21:28 © 2025 Wolters Kluwer Deutschland GmbH 10/23 currently in force to draw up external contingency plans for the implementation of civil protection measures outside these bodies.

- EU No. L 188 p. 14), in which stored: 25.06.2025, 21:28 h © 2025 Wolters Kluwer Deutschland GmbH 10 / 23 currently valid version, to draw up external emergency plans for the implementation of civil protection measures outside of these facilities. 2Set 1 does not apply to waste disposal facilities for which an external emergency plan has to be drawn up in accordance with § 10a para. 1 sentence 1.

- 2Sentence 1 does not apply to waste disposal facilities for which an external emergency plan has to be drawn up in accordance with § 10a para. 1 sentence 1. (2) The external emergency plans pursue the following objectives:

