# 4.

- 3. The external contingency plans shall contain information on the measures to be taken in the event of an emergency in the vicinity of the site of the facility.

- (3) The external contingency plans shall contain information on the measures to be taken in the event of an emergency in the vicinity of the site of the facility. (4) § 10a para. 1 sentence 4, para. 4 and 5 sentences 1, 2 and 4 to 7 and paragraph 6 sentence 1 shall apply mutatis mutandis.

- (4) § 10a para. 1 sentence 4, para. 4 and 5 sentences 1, 2 and 4 to 7 and para. 6 sentence 1 shall apply accordingly. § 10c NKatSG - Emergency planning for the environment of nuclear installations and final storage (1) 1The highest civil protection authority shall be responsible for the national emergency planning for the implementation of civil protection measures in the vicinity of nuclear installations (§ 2 para. 3a No. 1 of the Nuclear Act), installations for the disposal of radioactive waste and similar installations.

- § 10c NKatSG - Emergency planning for the environment of nuclear installations and final warehouses (1) 1The highest civil protection authority is responsible for the nationwide emergency planning for the implementation of civil protection measures in the environment of nuclear installations (§ 2 para. 3a No. 1 of the Nuclear Act), installations for the disposal of radioactive waste and these assimilated installations. 2For this purpose, the highest civil protection authority, in agreement with the Ministry responsible for the environment, prepares a nationwide emergency plan in electronic form; the lower civil protection authorities are obliged to participate in it.

- 2For this purpose, the Supreme Civil Protection Authority, in agreement with the Ministry responsible for the environment, shall draw up a national emergency plan in electronic form, and the lower civil protection authorities shall be obliged to participate in it. 3The lower civil protection authority, in whose district a plant referred to in sentence 1 is located, shall draw up a local external emergency plan.

- 3The lower civil protection authority, in whose district a plant referred to in sentence 1 is located, shall draw up a local external emergency plan. 4As far as the district of another lower civil protection authority is located within a circle with a radius of 20 km around a nuclear power plant, it shall draw up a follow-up plan.

- 4As far as the district of another lower civil protection authority is located within a circle with a radius of 20 km around a nuclear power plant, it shall draw up a connecting plan. 5§ 10a para. 1 sentence 4 and para. 4 shall apply mutatis mutandis to the local external emergency plans and the connecting plans.

- 5§ 10a para. 1 sentence 4 and para. 4 shall apply mutatis mutandis to the local external emergency plans and the follow-up plans. (2) 1The lower civil protection authorities shall review the local external emergency plans and follow-up plans annually and shall test them at the latest after three years and, if necessary, revise them and update them.

- (2) 1The lower civil protection authorities shall review the local external contingency plans and follow-up plans annually and shall test them at the latest after three years and, if necessary, revise them and update them. 2§ 10a, paragraph 5, sentences 2, 6 and 7 shall apply mutatis mutandis.

- (3) The costs incurred by the lower civil protection authorities through the emergency planning referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2, including the resulting establishment, training and equipment of civil protection units and facilities, shall be borne by the country.

- (3) The costs incurred by the lower civil protection authorities through the emergency planning referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2, including the resulting establishment, training and equipment of civil protection units and facilities, shall be borne by the country. § 11 NKatSG - Civil protection exercises (1) 1The civil protection authorities shall carry out civil protection exercises.

- § 11 NKatSG - Civil Protection Exercises (1) 1The civil protection authorities carry out civil protection exercises. 2They are intended to test and verify in particular the management of the disaster control as well as the readiness for action and the cooperation of the forces.

- 2In particular, they aim to test and verify the management of disaster control and the readiness and cooperation of the forces. (2) Civil protection exercises within the meaning of this law are only exercises ordered by a civil protection authority.

- (2) Civil protection exercises within the meaning of this law are only exercises ordered by a civil protection authority. stored: 25.06.2025, 21:28 h © 2025 Wolters Kluwer Deutschland GmbH 11 / 23 §§ 12 - 16, third section - Units and facilities of civil protection § 12 NKatSG - list (1) 1The lower civil protection authority promotes and monitors the establishment, training and equipment of units and facilities of civil protection in accordance with the disasters identified in accordance with § 7 paragraph 1.

- stored: 25.06.2025, 21:28 h © 2025 Wolters Kluwer Deutschland GmbH 11 / 23 §§ 12 - 16, third section - Units and facilities of civil protection § 12 NKatSG - list (1) 1The lower civil protection authority promotes and monitors the establishment, training and equipment of units and facilities of civil protection in accordance with the disasters identified in accordance with § 7 paragraph 1. 2They are established by public and private institutions.

- 2They are set up by public and private institutions. 3If necessary, the lower civil protection authority itself will establish units and facilities (directory units).

- 3If necessary, the lower civil protection authority itself shall establish and maintain units and facilities (control units). (2) 1The supreme civil protection authority shall establish and maintain central national units and mobile management units in addition to the units referred to in paragraph 1.

- (2) 1In addition to the units referred to in paragraph 1, the Supreme Civil Protection Authority shall set up and maintain central national units and mobile management staff. 2For the establishment of the central national units and the mobile management staff, it shall use the carrier in accordance with § 14 and shall use emergency forces and resources of the country.

- 2For the establishment of the central national units and the mobile management staff, it uses the carrier according to § 14 and uses emergency forces and resources of the country. (3) The upper civil protection authority operates a central camp for civil protection.

- (3) The Upper Civil Protection Authority shall operate a Central Civil Protection Camp. (4) The Supreme Civil Protection Authority shall establish units for support measures in accordance with Article 2(1)(b).

- 4. The Supreme Civil Protection Authority shall establish units for support measures in accordance with Article 2(1)(b) of Decision 1313/2013/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of

