# 17. Dezember 2013

- on a Union Civil Protection Mechanism (OJ EU No L 347, p. 924), as last amended by Regulation (EU) 2021/836 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2021 (OJ L 347, p.

- 924), as last amended by Regulation (EU) 2021/836 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2021 (OJ EU No L 185 p. 1).

- 1), § 13 NKatSG - Definitions (1) 1Units and institutions of civil protection are groups of persons and material which are classified for the purpose of combating disasters and are organised according to specialised services.

- § 13 NKatSG - Definitions (1) 1Units and facilities of civil protection are intended for the purpose of combating disasters and are grouped according to specialized services and uniformly managed summaries of persons and material. 2Units are intended for mobile use, facilities for fixed use.

- 2Units are intended for mobile use, fixed-use facilities. (2) 1Central national units are intended to combat disasters and exceptional events which cannot be adequately addressed by the units of the lower civil protection authorities.

- (2) 1Central national units are used to combat disasters and exceptional events which cannot be adequately addressed with the units of the lower civil protection authorities.2These include, in particular, central national units for support, logistics, emergency communication, mobile power supply, management support and chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear protection (CBRN protection).

- 2These include, in particular, central national units for support, logistics, emergency communication, mobile power supply, management support and chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear protection (CBRN protection). § 14 NKatSG - Participation (1) Units and institutions of public institutions participate in civil protection if they are included as such by the civil protection authority responsible for their location.

- § 14 NKatSG - Participation (1) Units and institutions of public institutions are involved in civil protection if they are covered as such by the civil protection authority responsible for their location. (2) 1Units and institutions of private institutions are involved in civil protection if they are suitable for this purpose and their institution declares the willingness to participate.

- (2) 1Units and bodies of private institutions shall be involved in civil protection if they are appropriate and if their institution declares its willingness to participate. 2Aptitude shall be determined by the Civil Protection Authority.

- 2The suitability is determined by the Civil Protection Authority. 3This finding is not necessary if the suitability already according to § 26 para. 1 sentence 2 of the Civil Protection and Disaster Assistance Act is to be determined by the

