# 2.

- a benefit in kind requested in accordance with § 29 shall not be paid, not in full, not properly or not in time, or contrary to a duty of tolerance or omission imposed on it. (2) An infringement within the meaning of paragraph 1 may be punishable by a fine of up to EUR 5 000.

- (2) Infringements within the meaning of paragraph 1 may be punished with a fine of up to EUR 5 000. § 34 NKatSG - Restriction of fundamental rights The fundamental rights of physical integrity (Article 2 para. 2 sentence 1 of the Basic Law), the freedom of the person (Article 2 para. 2 sentence 2 of the Basic Law), the freedom of movement (Article 11 of the Basic Law) and the inviolability of the dwelling (Article 13 of the Basic Law) are restricted in accordance with this Act.

- § 34 NKatSG - Restriction of fundamental rights The fundamental rights of physical integrity (Article 2 para. 2 sentence 1 of the Basic Law), the freedom of the person (Article 2 para. 2 sentence 2 of the Basic Law), the freedom of movement (Article 11 of the Basic Law) and the inviolability of housing (Article 13 of the Basic Law) are restricted in accordance with this Act. §§ 35 - 36, 10th Section - Civil Defence § 35 NKatSG - Responsibility for measures of civil protection (1) 1The measures of civil protection according to § 1 para. 2 No.

- §§ 35 - 36, 10th Section - Civil Defence § 35 NKatSG - Jurisdiction for measures of civil protection (1) 1The measures of civil protection according to § 1 para. 2 Nos. 1, 2 and 5 of the Civil Protection and Disaster Assistance Act (ZSKG) of 25 March 1997 (BGBl.

- 1, 2 and 5 of the Civil Protection and Disaster Assistance Act (ZSKG) of 25 March 1997 (BGBl I, p. 726), as last amended by Article 144 of the Regulation of 19 June 2020 (BGBl I, p.

- 726), as last amended by Article 144 of the Regulation of 19 June 2020 (BGBl I, p. 1328), is the responsibility of the lower civil protection authorities as a function of the delegated scope of action.

- I, p. 1328), as the task of the delegated scope of action are the lower civil protection authorities. 2§ 2 para. 1 sentences 2 to 4 and § 3 apply accordingly.

- 2§ 2 sec. 1 sentences 2 to 4 and § 3 apply accordingly. (2) The authorization to issue regulations pursuant to § 2 sec. 2 sentence 1 ZSKG becomes applicable for the tasks pursuant to § 1 sec. 2 no.

- (2) The authorization to issue regulations pursuant to § 2 para. 2 sentence 1 of the ZSKG shall be conferred on the Ministry responsible for Home Affairs for the tasks referred to in § 1 para. 2 nos. 1, 2 and 5 of the ZSKG.

- § 36 NKatSG - Responsibilities for tasks of an alarm calendar leader within the framework of the civil alarm planning (1) 1The tasks of an alarm calendar leader within the framework of the civil alarm planning are entrusted to the counties, non-circular cities as well as the cities of Cuxhaven and Hildesheim.

- § 36 NKatSG - Responsibilities for tasks of an alarm-calendar leading body in the context of civil alarm planning (1) 1The tasks of an alarm-calendar leading body in the context of civil alarm planning lie in the delegated sphere of activity of the counties, district-free cities as well as the cities of Cuxhaven and Hildesheim. 2The jurisdiction of the large independent cities and independent municipalities is excluded (§ 17 sentence 1 of the Niedersächsische Kommunalverfassungsgesetz).

- 2The competence of the large independent cities and the independent municipalities is excluded (§ 17 sentence 1 of the Lower Saxony Municipal Constitution Act).Stored: 25.06.2025, 21:28 h © 2025 Wolters Kluwer Deutschland GmbH 22 / 23 (2) 1In the first year of the transfer of tasks, the country provides a total of 2.4 million euros for the introduction.

- saved: 25.06.2025, 21:28 h © 2025 Wolters Kluwer Deutschland GmbH 22 / 23 (2) 1In the first year of the task transfer, the country provides a total of 2.4 million euros for the introduction. 2The distribution of the funds from the first sentence to the counties, non-circular cities and the cities of Cuxhaven and Hildesheim consists of:

