# 25.06.25, 21:36

- Seeing fire weather, assessing forest fire risk - waldwissen. net page 1 of 4 https://www.

- Page 1 of 4 https://www.waldwissen.

- waldwissen. net/de/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/feuerwetter-erkennen-waldbrand-einschaetzen Redaktion Forstliche Versuchs- und Forschungsanstalt Baden-Württemberg URL: /de/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/feuerwetter-erkennen-waldbrand-einschaetzen Feuerwetter erkenn, Waldbranddranger estimieren With climate change, the risk of forest fire increases.

- net/en/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/feuerwetter-erkennen-waldbranddranger-einschaetzen Editor's Office Forstliche Versuchs- und Forschungsanstalt Baden-Württemberg URL: /de/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/feuerwetter-erkennen-waldbranddranger-einschaetzen Feuerwetter erkenn, Waldbranddranger estimieren With climate change, the risk of forest fire increases. Whether a fire actually ignites, how and at what speed it spreads depends on concrete weather conditions.

- Whether a fire actually ignites, how and at what speed it spreads depends on specific weather conditions. Knowledge of critical meteorological constellations and values helps foresters and fire brigades to prevent and combat fires.

- Knowledge of critical meteorological constellations and values helps foresters and fire brigades to prevent and combat fires. What is fire weather?

- What is meant by fire weather? Fire weather is called weather conditions that affect inflammation, fire behaviour and fire control.

- Fire weather is called weather conditions that affect inflammation, fire behaviour and fire control. The most important weather conditions that affect fire behaviour are: temperature, relative humidity, wind, precipitation and atmospheric stability.

- The most important weather conditions that affect fire behaviour are: temperature, relative humidity, wind, precipitation and atmospheric stability. Temperature: From 30 degrees Celsius it becomes critical The air temperature is expressed in degrees Celsius (°C) in large parts of the world.

- Temperature: From 30 degrees Celsius it is critical The air temperature is expressed in degrees Celsius (°C) in large parts of the world.The temperature is influenced by the variables day and night time, latitude and season.

- The temperature is influenced by the variables day and night time, latitude and season. Furthermore, topographical features such as height (over normal zero; ü.

- In addition, topographical features such as height (over normal zero; above N.

- N.N.

- N. ), slope slope and slope orientation have a decisive influence on temperature differences at a particular location.

- ), slope inclination and slope alignment have a decisive influence on temperature differences at a particular location. The critical value for forest fires is 30 degrees Celsius or higher.

- The critical value for forest fires is 30 degrees Celsius or higher. Humidity: Maximum fire activity in the afternoon Relative humidity indicates the proportion of the air saturated with water.

- Humidity: maximum fire activity in the afternoon The relative humidity indicates the proportion of the air saturated with water. As shown in Figure 3, the relative humidity decreases with increasing air temperature.

- As shown in Figure 3, the relative humidity decreases with increasing air temperature. Conversely, the humidity increases at falling temperature and is given with values of 1 to 100 percent.

- Conversely, the humidity increases at a lower temperature and is given with values of 1 to 100 percent. The critical value, the humidity level in the air, is less than 30 percent for most organic fuels at a humidity.

- The critical value, the humidity level in the air, is less than 30 percent for most organic fuels at a humidity. In addition, there is an inverse correlation between temperature and relative humidity.

- In addition, there is an inverse correlation between temperature and relative humidity. Higher temperatures usually mean a lower relative humidity.

- Higher temperatures usually mean a lower relative humidity. The highest fire activity occurs in the afternoon between 1 pm and 4 pm (see Fig. 3).

- The highest fire activity occurs in the afternoon between 1 pm and 4 pm (cf. Fig. 3). Wind determined direction and speed Wind is caused by horizontal movements of air from an area with high to an area with low air pressure, i.e. by air pressure differences.

- Wind determined direction and speed Wind is caused by horizontal movements of air from an area with high to an area with low air pressure, i.e. air pressure differences. Changes in wind speed and direction can be well predicted.

- Changes in wind speed and direction can be predicted well. However, it is necessary to distinguish between general and local winds.

- However, a distinction must be made between general and local winds. Local winds have great variability and thus influence local fire behaviour.

- Local winds have great variability and thus influence local fire behaviour.High temperatures dry organic material and increase the flammability of the fuel as well as the speed and intensity of fire propagation With decreasing temperature, the potential of fire propagation Wind decreases the moisture content of the fuel and increases the oxygen supply of the fire Fig. 1: Fire stove in the forest.

- High temperatures dry organic material and increase the flammability of the fuel as well as the speed and intensity of the fire propagation With decreasing temperature, the potential of the fire propagation wind decreases the fuel moisture and increases the oxygen supply of the fire Fig. 1: Fire stove in the forest. (Photo: Adobe Stock - Ivan Reshetnikov) Fig. 2: Fire on dry surface.

- (Photo: Adobe Stock - Ivan Reshetnikov) Fig. 2: Fire on dry surface. (Photo: Adobe Stock - Rico Loeb) 25.06.25, 21:36 Detecting fire weather, assessing forest fire risk - knowledge of the forest.

- (Photo: Adobe Stock - Rico Loeb) 25.06.25, 21:36 Detecting fire weather, assessing forest fire risk - waldwissen. net Page 2 of 4 https://www.

- Page 2 of 4 https://www.waldwissen.

- waldwissen. net/en/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/feuerwetter-erkennen-waldbrandverhazard-schaetzen The critical value for forest fires is 30 km/h or more Precipitation: The amount of precipitation (rain and snow) is the amount of moisture in liquid or solid form that reaches the earth's surface.

- net/en/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/feuerwetter-erkennen-waldbrandhazard-schaetzen The critical value for forest fires is 30 km/h or more Precipitation: The amount of moisture in liquid or solid form, which reaches the earth's surface, is greater than the amount of precipitation (rain and snow).Light rain over a long period of time has a much greater moistening effect than a short, strong rain shower The duration of precipitation therefore has a greater influence on the moisture content of the fuel than the actual amount of precipitation The effect of the precipitation varies depending on the type of fuel affected (e.g. fine rice vs.

- Light rain over a long period of time has a much greater moistening effect than a short, strong rain shower The duration of precipitation therefore has a greater influence on the moisture content of the fuel than the actual amount of precipitation The effect of the precipitation varies depending on the type of fuel involved (e.g. fine rice vs. old wood), duration, quantity and time since the last precipitation Conclusion Cooperation project "Waldbrand – Klima – Resilienz" (WKR) This article is based on the research and practical knowledge in the cooperation project "Waldbrand – Klima – Resilienz" (WKR) between the Forstliche Versuchs- und Forschungsanstalt Baden-Württemberg (FVA) and the European Forest Institute (EFI).

- Altholz), duration, quantity and time since the last precipitation Conclusion Cooperation project "Waldbrand – Klima – Resilienz" (WKR) This article is based on the research and practical knowledge in the cooperation project "Waldbrand – Klima – Resilienz" (WKR) between the Forstliche Versuchs- und Forschungsanstalt Baden-Württemberg (FVA) and the European Forest Institute (EFI).The training modules were designed and published by the EFI.

- The training modules were designed and published by the EFI. The PDF document of the underlying training module on fire behaviour can be obtained via the following link: Lindon Pronto and Alexander Held, WKR Fire Weather Training Module, 2023 Supporters Forest Climate Fund, Technical Agency for Renewable Raw Materials (FNR), The Federal Ministry of Food and Agriculture (BMEL), Federal Ministry of the Environment, Nature Conservation, Nuclear Safety and Consumer Protection (BMUV) Wind affects the direction and speed of fire propagation Can transport particle sparks and cause flying fire High temperatures and strong winds that can reduce relative humidity, making vegetation easier to burn Lighter but long-lasting rain through moistening fuel better than a short, heavy rain; light fuel dries out faster than severe weather influences after precipitation in the fire behaviour include: lightning stroke as an inflammatory source Rapid fire propagation through strong wind fire propagation increases with decreasing air humidity to burn spread, slows down with increasing humidity precipitation.

- The PDF document of the underlying training module on fire behaviour can be obtained via the following link: Lindon Pronto and Alexander Held, WKR Fire Weather Training Module, 2023 Förderer Waldklimafonds, Fachagentur Nachwachsende Rohstoffe (FNR), The Federal Ministry of Food and Agriculture (BMEL), Federal Ministry of the Environment, Nature Conservation, Nuclear Safety and Consumer Protection (BMUV) Wind affects the direction and speed of fire propagation Can transport particle sparks and thereby cause flying fire High temperatures and strong winds that lower relative humidity, making the vegetation more combustible Light, but long-lasting rain moistens fuel better than a short, heavy rain; light fuel dries out faster after a precipitation than heavy weather influences the fire behaviour include: lightning strike as an inflammable source Fast fire spread through strong wind fire spread with decreasing humidity Burn spread slows down with increasing humidity Rain precipitation slows down fire spread; depending on the amount can be used by fire.

- (Photo: Adobe Stock - Federico Neri) Fig. 6: Cooked wet trunk. (Photo: FVA BW/Hengst) 25.06.25, 21:36 Detecting fire weather, assessing forest fire risk - knowledge of the forest.

- (Photo: FVA BW/Hengst) 25.06.25, 21:36 Detecting fire weather, assessing forest fire risk - waldwissen. net page 3 of 4 https://www.

- Page 3 of 4 https://www.waldwissen.

- waldwissen. net/en/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/feuerwetter-erkennen-waldbranddicherheit-inschaetzen More on waldwissen.

- net/en/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/feuerwetter-erkennen-waldbranddicherheit-inschaetzen More on forest knowledge. net More on the Internet Overview: Understanding, preventing and combating forest fire (/en/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/waldbrandmanagement) In Europe, the risk of forest fire is rising!

- net More on the Internet Overview: Understanding, preventing and combating forest fires (/en/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/waldbrandmanagement) In Europe, the risk of forest fires increases! The holistic forest fire management relies on cooperation: If the involved actors such as forest and fire brigade network, exchange information and practice together, fires – not only in the forest – can be better avoided and combated.

- The holistic forest fire management relies on cooperation: If the involved actors, such as forest and fire brigades, network, exchange information and practice together, fires – not only in the forest – can be better avoided and combated. Codes of conduct in areas at risk of forest fire (e.g. forest management/damage management/forest fire/behaviour rules-bei-waldbrand) Questions about forest fire prevention: What are the legal regulations in areas at risk of forest fire and how do I behave there?

- Codes of conduct in areas at risk of forest fire (/en/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/verhaltenregeln-bei-waldbrand) Questions about forest fire prevention: What are the legal regulations in areas at risk of forest fire and how do I behave there? What do I have to do if, despite everything, a fire breaks out in the forest?

- What do I have to do if, despite everything, a fire breaks out in the forest?Hazard of forest fire in times of climate change (/en/waldwirtschaft/sähsmanagement/waldbrand/waldbrandstanger) Climate change is on everyone's lips.

- Forest fire risk in times of climate change (/de/forest management/damage management/forest fire/forest fire risk) Climate change is on everyone's lips. Worldwide, however, one tries to keep to the 2 °C target.

- Worldwide, efforts are being made to meet the 2°C target. This article describes the link between climate change and the risk of forest fire.

- This article describes the relationship between climate change and the risk of forest fires. Prediction of the risk of forest fires (prognosis) (/en/waldwirtschaft/sähsmanagement/waldbrand/waldbrandprognosis) Forest fire warning levels provide information about the risk of forest fires and help determine the correct prevention measures.

- Prediction of forest fire risk (Prognosis) (/en/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/waldbrandprognosis) Forest fire warning levels provide information about the risk of forest fires and help determine the correct prevention measures. Strategies of forest fire control (/en/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/waldbrandbekempfung) Which methods of control of different types of forest fires exist and how is a successful deployment planning carried out?

- Strategies for forest fire control (/en/forest management/damage management/forest fire/forest fire control) Which methods for combating different types of forest fires exist and how is a successful deployment planning carried out? These essential questions for successful and safe forest fire control are answered in the article.

- These essential questions for a successful and safe forest fire control are answered in the article. A new method warns against forest fire (/en/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/waldbrand-fruehrecognizierung) The innovative instrument FireLess2 informs Förster and firefighters online about how it is ordered for moisture in the forest floor and how it changes.

- A new method warns against forest fire (/en/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/waldbrand-fruehrecognizierung) The innovative instrument FireLess2 informs Förster and firefighters online about how the moisture in the forest floor is ordered and how it changes.

- WKR training module Fire Weather (2023) · Forest-Climate-Resilience (WKR) 25.06.25, 21:36 Detect fire weather, assess forest fire risk - forest knowledge.

- WKR Training Module Fire Weather (2023) · Forest Climate Resilience (WKR) 25.06.25, 21:36 Identify Fire Weather, Evaluate Forest Fire Risk - Forest Knowledge. net page 4 of 4 https://www.

- Page 4 of 4 https://www.waldwissen.

- waldwissen. net/de/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/feuerwetter-erkennen-waldbrandhazard-inschaetzen Document info Authors Eike Jentner, Lindon Pronto, Alexander Held Editor's Office Forstliche Versuchs- und Forschungsanstalt Baden-Württemberg (/en/we-ueber-uns/redaktion-fva) Contact Eike Jentner Forstliche Versuchs- und Forschungsanstalt Baden-Württemberg Forstwirtschaft und Management Wonnhaldestraße 4 D - 79100 Freiburg Tel: +49 (0)761 4018 475 E-Mail (mailto:Eike.

- net/en/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/feuerwetter-erkennen-waldbrand-einschaetzen Document info Authors Eike Jentner, Lindon Pronto, Alexander Held Editor's Office Forstliche Versuchs- und Forschungsanstalt Baden-Württemberg (/en/we-ueber-uns/redaktion-fva) Contact Eike Jentner Forstliche Versuchs- und Forschungsanstalt Baden-Württemberg Forstökonomie und Management Wonnhaldestraße 4 D - 79100 Freiburg Tel: +49 (0)761 4018 475 E-Mail (mailto:Eike. Jentner@forst.

- Jentner@forst. bwl.

- bwl. de) Original article Jentner, Eike (2023): Detecting fire weather, assessing the danger of forest fire.

- de) Original article Jentner, Eike (2023): Detect fire weather, assess forest fire risk. Published on www.

- Published on www.waldwissen.

- forest knowledge. net, 12.09.2023.

- net, 12.09.2023. This article is based on the training module on fire behaviour of the working group "Waldbrand – Klima – Resilienz" (WKR).

- This article is based on the training module on fire behaviour of the working group "Waldbrand – Klima – Resilienz" (WKR).

