# 2. Betreuungsgruppe (BtGr2),

- - Support group (BtTr) with care group car (BtGrKW), - Support group 30 (BtTr30) with care force car (BtKW) and tandem trailer care (TA-Bt) with care equipment for 30 personnel/affected, - Catering group (VTr), - Catering group (VTr) with equipment car catering (GW-V)6 and field cooker on trailers (FKH) and - Catering transport group (VtTr) with crew transport car catering (MTW-V) and tandem trailer catering (TA-V): 6 The GW-V is the federal vehicle with the Federal name Equipment car care (GWBt) Fig. 8 tactical structure of the BtZ 13 tasks: - Care of affected persons with the necessary goods of the daily needs, - Care of operational personnel with the necessary goods of the daily needs, - Preparation of food for about 250 persons and establishment and operation of catering and catering facilities, particularly care centres, care centres and care centres - Care groups and care centres - Care groups and care centres.

- 14 4.8. Prevention of chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear (CBRN) hazards CBRN train The CBRN train (CBRN-Z) in total strength 1/5/18/24 consists regularly of - train crew (ZTr) with train crew (ZTrKW), - CBRN support group (CBRN-UstgGr) with multi-purpose vehicle CSA (MZF-CSA) - decontamination squad (DekonSt) with equipment wagon decontamination personnel (GW Decon P) and decontamination lock on tandem trailers (TA-DKS) - hazardous goods group (GfGTr) with equipment wagon hazardous goods (GW-G)7 and - measuring group (MTr) with CBRN reconnaissance trolley (CBRN ErkW): Tasks: - detection/fixing of CBRN hazards and hazardous areas, - suspicion/fixing of contamination: sampling, measurement of contamination, detection of hazardous substances, detection of hazardous areas, detection of hazardous areas, detection of hazardous areas, detection of hazardous areas, detection of hazardous areas, detection of hazardous areas, detection of hazardous areas, detection of hazardous areas

- For chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear (CBRN) hazards CBRN train The CBRN train (CBRN-Z) in total strength 1/5/18/24 consists regularly of - train crew (ZTr) with train crew (ZTrKW), - CBRN support group (CBRN-UstgGr) with multi-purpose vehicle CSA (MZF-CSA) - decontamination squad (DekonSt) with equipment wagon decontamination personnel (GW Decon P) and decontamination lock on tandem trailers (TA-DKS) - hazardous goods group (GfGTr) with equipment wagon hazardous goods (GW-G)7 and - measurement group (MTr) with CBRN reconnamination trolley (CBRN) exploration trolleys (CBRN)): Tasks: - detection/fixing of equipment of CBRN hazards and hazardous areas, - suspicion/fixing of contamination: sampling, measurement of contamination, detection of contamination of hazardous areas/contamination of hazardous areas, detection of hazardous areas, detection of hazardous areas, detection of hazardous areas, detection of hazardous areas.

- For the coordination of several MTr tactical divisions can be formed as operational units. Details are regulated in the CBRN concept of the country.

- Details are regulated in the CBRN concept of the country. 7 until further notice the local predecessor types GW-G1 and GW-G2 supported by the country are used Fig. 9 tactical structure of the CBRN-Z 15 4.9.

- 7 until further notice, the municipal predecessors of GW-G1 and GW-G2 may be used by the country. Fig. 9 tactical structure of CBRN-Z 15 4.9. Defense against water hazards Water hazard train The water hazard train (WGfZ) in total thickness 1/4/14/19 consists of - train crew (ZTr) with train crew car (ZTrK), - first and second water hazard group (WGfGr1 and WGfGr2) with each unit wagon Water hazards (GW-WGf) with a multi-purpose boat (MZB) on trailers (Anh-MZB) and - third water hazard group (Severe) (WGfGr3(s)) with equipment wagon Water hazards (Severe) (GW-WGf(s)) with a multi-purpose boat (Severe) (MZB(s)) on trailers (Anh-MZB(s)): Tasks: - Search, rescue and mountain of people, animals, emergency values and cultural goods from the disposal of bad coastal areas - Support of the forces in the Baltic Sea and tasks in relation to the environment and in relation to water.

- Absence of water hazards Water hazard train The water hazard train (WGfZ) in total thickness 1/4/14/19 consists of - train crew (ZTr) with train crew car (ZTrKW), - first and second water hazard group (WGfGr1 and WGfGr2) with each unit wagon Water hazards (GW-WGf) with a multi-purpose boat (MZB) on trailer (Anh-MZB) and - third water hazard group(s) (WGfGr3(s)) with unit wagon Water hazards(severe) (GW-WGf(s)) with a multi-purpose boat(s) with a multi-purpose boat(s) on trailer (Anh-MZB(s)): Tasks: - Search, rescue and mountain of people, animals, material values and cultural goods from hazards on, in and on water, - Take over of supporting tasks in the elimination of environmental hazards as immediate measures near the coast and on the Baltic Sea, and on and on inland waters (s included), - transport of all the framework of the bad forces used in the water hazard group - Exc.

- Fig. 10 tactical structure of the WGfZ 16 4.10. Personal information registration unit The registration unit (RegE) with a crew strength of 0/1/5/6 has a crew transport car registration unit (MTW-RegE).

- Personal information registration unit The registration unit (RegE) with a crew strength of 0/1/5/6 has a crew transport car registration unit (MTW-RegE). Tasks: - Registration of persons affected (injured and uninjured) at the damage site as well as in care centres and places, - Registration of emergency personnel, - Recording of searches at the damage site in written and digital form, - Publication of information at the municipal level (in case of locally limited locations, which do not make the call of the state information office (LAB) necessary).

- Tasks: - registration of persons affected (injured and uninjured) at the site of damage, as well as in care centres and places, - registration of emergency personnel, - reception of searches at the site of damage in written and digital form, - publication of information at the municipal level (in case of locally limited locations, which do not make the call of the state information office (LAB) necessary). Fig. 11 tactical sign of RegE 17 4.11.

- Fig. 11 tactical sign of the RegE 17 4.11. Medical Task Force (MTF) The Medical Task Forces are standardized tactical units of the federal and Länder with special abilities to support or supplement units of civil protection.

- Medical Task Force (MTF) The Medical Task Forces are standardized tactical units of the Federal and the Länder with special abilities to support or supplement units of civil protection. As a temporary association for the execution of a particular order, the subunits form a task force as a special construction organization.

- As a temporary merger for the execution of a certain order, the subunits form a task force as a special construction organization. Of a total of 61 MTFs nationwide, three MTFs are deployed in Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania under the responsibility of the country: MTF 11 "Vorpommern", MTF 12 "Mittleres Mecklenburg", and MTF 13 "Westmecklenburg".

- Out of a total of 61 MTFs nationwide, three MTFs are deployed in Mecklenburg-Vorpommern under the responsibility of the country: MTF 11 "Vorpommern", MTF 12 "Middle Mecklenburg", and MTF 13 "Westmecklenburg". In implementation of the new equipment concept of the Federal Ministry of Interior and Europe Mecklenburg-Vorpommern has the DRK-Landesverband Mecklenburg-Vorpommern e.

- In implementation of the new equipment concept of the Federal Ministry of the Interior and Europe Mecklenburg-Vorpommern has commissioned the DRK-Landesverband Mecklenburg-Vorpommern e.V. to set up, maintain and deploy three Medical Task Forces in Mecklenburg-Vorpommern.

- V. with the establishment, maintenance and use of three Medical Task Forces in Mecklenburg-Vorpommern. The "Agreement between the Land of Mecklenburg-Vorpommern represented by the Ministry of the Interior and Sport Mecklenburg-Vorpommern and the DRK-Landesverband Mecklenburg-Vorpommern e.

- The "Agreement between the Land of Mecklenburg-Vorpommern represented by the Ministry of the Interior and Sport Mecklenburg-Vorpommern and the DRK-Landesverband Mecklenburg-Vorpommern e.V. on the establishment, maintenance and use of three Medical Task Forces (MTF) in Mecklenburg-Vorpommern for participation in disaster and civil protection" is regulated in more detail by the "Agreement between the Land of Mecklenburg-Vorpommern represented by the Ministry of the Interior and Sport Mecklenburg-Vorpommern e.V.

