# 6.

- Summary / Conclusion 43 Appendix 1 Timely implementation of measures 46 Appendix 2 Source list 49 4 Ministry of the Interior and Sports Mecklenburg-Vorpommern Unit II 450 1 Introduction In the Federal Republic of Germany, an efficient assistance system has developed in order to deal with exceptional threats or damage situations in Germany. Within the framework of the civil protection provided by the Länder, the situations arising from natural disasters, industrial accidents, diseases, animal diseases and also from threats of international terrorism are to be managed.

- In the context of the civil protection provided by the countries, the situations arising from natural disasters, industrial accidents, diseases, animal diseases and also from the dangers of international terrorism are to be dealt with. In the area of state crisis management, a crisis is understood as a situation that differs from the normal state, which is characterized by a risk potential that carries risks and damage to the life and limb of people or significant material values or serious risks to the political, social or economic system.

- In the field of state crisis management, a crisis is understood to be a situation that differs from the normal state and is characterised by a risk potential that carries risks and damage to the life and limb of people or significant material values or serious threats to the political, social or economic system. Disasters, major damage events, major damage situations and major accidents are thus also crises under the conditions of this definition.

- Disasters, major damage events, major damage situations and major accidents are thus also crises under the conditions of this definition. The complexity of crisis situations increases as well as the expectations of those affected of the organisations that are set up to deal with them.

- The complexity of crisis situations is increasing as well as the expectations of those concerned of the organisations that are set up to deal with it. Beyond the satisfaction of (basic) needs such as food, drinking water, shelter, the success and quality of crisis management are also measured today by how coordinated and fast or smoothly the return to normal is.

- Beyond the satisfaction of (basic) needs, such as food, drinking water, shelter, the success and quality of crisis management today are also measured by how coordinated and fast or smoothly the return to normal is. The more comprehensive developments are foreseen, the better preparedness for a crisis is possible and the easier the management can take place.

- The more comprehensive developments are foreseen, the better preparedness for a crisis situation is possible and the easier it is to cope with. The following describes the civil protection concept of the state government of Mecklenburg-Vorpommern as well as the consequences and conclusions resulting from the analysis of the new risks for the protection of the population from disasters and major damage situations.

- In the following, the civil protection concept of the state government of Mecklenburg-Vorpommern is presented as well as the consequences and conclusions resulting from the analysis of the new risks for the protection of the population from disasters and large damage situations. To the thematic focus their challenges are described and – as far as possible – financial and material needs estimated.

- As regards the thematic priorities, their challenges are described and, as far as possible, financial and material needs are assessed.The implementation of the thematic priorities is subject to a financial reserve on the basis that all measures which are not yet covered by the budget or medium-term financial planning are subject to funding.

- The implementation of the thematic priorities will be subject to funding in financial terms on the basis that all measures that are not yet covered by the budget or medium-term financial planning are subject to funding. The objective of the civil protection concept is to create the conditions for the further development of effective civil protection in Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, which will meet the future challenges, based on the district reform and the associated repositioning of civil protection authorities in the districts.

- The aim of the civil protection concept is to create the conditions for the further development of effective civil protection in Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, which has met the future challenges, based on the district reform and the associated repositioning of civil protection authorities in the districts. The civil protection concept thus forms the basis for the future planning of the next years.

- The civil protection concept thus forms the basis for the future planning of the next years. The civil protection concept is intended to form the basis for the creation or amendment of legal bases and to ensure civil protection consistently at a high quality level in the future.

- The civil protection concept should form the basis for the creation or amendment of legal bases and ensure civil protection consistently at a high quality level in the future. 5 Ministry of the Interior and Sports Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania Unit II 450 The civil protection concept is guided by the conviction that civil protection must not be viewed in isolation, but rather represents a close link with the complexity of society as a whole.

- 5 Ministry of Interior and Sports Mecklenburg-Vorpommern Unit II 450 The civil protection concept is guided by the conviction that civil protection must not be viewed in isolation, but rather represents a close link with the complexity of society as a whole. The federal government, Länder, districts and municipalities have effectively organised their security and crisis management.

- The federal, state, county and local authorities have effectively organised their security and crisis management. The federal and state police and civil protection authorities work closely together to protect the population from these dangers, to avoid damage events as much as possible or to manage them as best possible.

- The federal and state police and civil protection authorities work closely together to protect the population from these dangers, to avoid damage events as far as possible or to manage them as best as possible. The implementation of the concept must take account of the special needs of people with disabilities.

- In the implementation of the concept, account must be taken of the special needs of people with disabilities. Despite all the precautions: 100% safety does not exist!

