# 2.1

- The asymmetric threat The generally accepted threat assessments show that Germany is part of a global danger area due to its foreign policy, humanitarian and military engagement and is in the focus of international terrorism. On the one hand, Germany's military security situation improved significantly at the end of the Cold War, on the other hand, geopolitical changes have led to new security political instability, new crises and conflicts in already existing crisis areas.

- On the one hand, Germany's military security situation improved significantly at the end of the Cold War, on the other hand, geopolitical changes have led to new security political instability, new crises and conflicts in already existing crisis areas. Europe is directly affected by these scenarios.

- Europe is directly affected by these scenarios. For years, the examples in the Balkans, Ukraine and the terrorist attacks in Madrid, London and Paris have shown that armed conflicts and international terrorism cannot be ruled out in Germany.

- Especially the examples in the Balkans, Ukraine and the terrorist attacks in Madrid, London and Paris have shown for years that armed conflicts and international terrorism cannot be ruled out in Germany. In addition, the further development and proliferation of weapons of mass destruction represent additional, difficult-to-calculate risks, so that the possible course of crises and conflicts can hardly be predicted exactly according to probabilities and threat level.

- In addition, the further development and proliferation of weapons of mass destruction represent additional, difficult-to-calculate risks, so that the possible course of crises and conflicts can hardly be predicted exactly according to probabilities and threat level. With the new threat situation of terrorism, the major flood disasters and accompanied by the Football World Cup 2006 a rethink took place.

- With the new threat situation of terrorism, the major flood disasters and accompanied by the 2006 World Cup, a rethink took place. Civil protection was re-designed, characterized by the establishment of plans for transregional assistance, the re-establishment of 6 Ministry of Interior and Sports Mecklenburg-Vorpommern Unit II 450 of a federal authority specifically responsible for the area (Federal Office for Civil Protection and Disaster Assistance) and the provision of larger-scale units for assistance (Medical Task Force).

