# 2.3

- Natural events, climate change The risks, dangers and damage effects of extreme natural events (floods, storms) will also increase for years and probably continue to grow in the future. Current research results confirm that both the intensity of weather-related natural disasters and their frequency will increase.

- Current research results confirm that both the intensity of weather-related natural disasters and their frequency will increase. Climate change in Germany is already visible today due to the increased extreme weather conditions, especially dry and heat periods as well as heavy precipitation and storm events (for example "Kyrill, winter with heavy frost, floods on the Rhine, Oder and Elbe, storm flood Baltic Sea).

- Climate change in Germany is already becoming visible today due to the increased extreme weather conditions, especially dry and heat periods, as well as heavy precipitation and storm events (for example "Kyrille", winter with heavy frost, floods on the Rhine, Oder and Elbe, storm flood Baltic Sea). Also in the international context, climate change will cause weather disasters of a magnitude such as the typhoon "Haiyan" (2013, Philippines) or the hurricane "Katrina" (2005, New Orleans) to have catastrophic effects, especially in conurbations.

- In the international context, climate change will also cause weather disasters of a magnitude such as the typhoon "Haiyan" (2013, Philippines) or the hurricane "Katrina" (2005, New Orleans) to have catastrophic effects, especially in metropolitan areas. Therefore, it is essential for civil protection to prepare for more frequent, complex and large-scale damage events caused by extreme weather events.

