# 3.3

- Restructuring of the Bundeswehr/Civil-Military Cooperation The Bundeswehr is an indispensable partner of the Länder in the management of major damage situations and disasters within the constitutional framework.The structure and the current structure of the civil-military cooperation (ZMZ) form in a federal approach the necessary important interface to the civil aid organizations and institutions throughout the federal territory.

- In a federal approach, the structure and the current structure of civil-military cooperation (ZMZ) form the necessary important interface with the civil aid organisations and institutions throughout the Federal Republic of Germany. The design of civil-military cooperation in Germany is an important prerequisite for the optimal use of troops and services of the Bundeswehr in support of civil authorities in the context of the management of natural disasters and particularly serious accidents according to the principle of subsidiarity.

- The design of civil-military cooperation in Germany is an important prerequisite for the optimal use of troops and services of the Bundeswehr in support of civil authorities in the context of the management of natural disasters and particularly serious accidents according to the principle of subsidiarity. Civil-military cooperation should continue to be at the current high level.

- Civil-military cooperation should continue to be at the current high level. On this basis, the internal departments of the Länder responsible for civil protection have accompanied the realignment and structural reform of the Bundeswehr: for example, at its meeting on 18/19, the Conference of Ministers for the Interior was held.

- On this basis, the internal departments responsible for civil protection of the Länder have accompanied the realignment and structural reform of the Bundeswehr: For example, at its meeting on 18/19 November 2010, the Interior Minister's Conference decided to have the effects of the structural reform of the Bundeswehr on civil protection investigated by a working group of the working group V "Feuerwehrangelegenheiten, Rettungswesen, Katastrophenschutz und mobilien Verfährung" ("Fireweer Affairs, Rescue, Civil Defence and Civil Defence").

- In November 2010, the decision was taken by a working group of the working group V "Fire Weir Affairs, Rescue, Civil Protection and Civil Defence" to investigate the impact of the structural reform of the Bundeswehr which was planned at the time on civil protection. The working group, which was then chaired by Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, had analysed the minimum requirements to be placed on the federal government by the Länder in order to maintain core competencies with the Bundeswehr in support of security in special cases or to create compensation elsewhere.

- The working group set up under the chairmanship of Mecklenburg-Vorpommern had analysed the minimum requirements of the Länder to the federal government in order to obtain core competencies with the Bundeswehr in support of security in special cases or to create compensation elsewhere. During the investigation it became clear that certain support services are usually only available with the Bundeswehr or can only be provided to the required extent by the Bundeswehr.

- During the investigation, it became clear that certain support services are usually only available by the Bundeswehr or can only be provided by it to the extent required. In this respect, the working group concluded that, for example, the "Man Power", CBRN capabilities through Fox (ABC defense), reconnaissance capabilities with Tornado reconnaissance aircraft, pioneering skills with heavy mountain and transport equipment and medical 9 Ministry of Internal Affairs and Sports Mecklenburg-Vorpommern Unit II 450 capabilities with the corresponding Bundeswehr facilities are indispensable for dealing with major damage situations and disasters.

- In this respect, the working group concluded that, for example, the "man-power," CBRN capabilities through Fox (ABC defense), reconnaissance capabilities with tornado reconnaissance aircraft, pioneering capabilities with heavy mountain and transport equipment, and medical 9 Ministry of Interior and Sports Mecklenburg-Vorpommern Unit II 450 capabilities with the corresponding Bundeswehr facilities are indispensable for coping with major damage situations and disasters. Furthermore, the working group considered the maintenance of the Landeskommandos and their subordinate structures as important partners for civil-military cooperation in the federal states to be indispensable.

- In addition, the working group considered the maintenance of the Land Commands and their subordinate structures as important partners for civil-military cooperation in the federal states to be indispensable.

- With the subsequent decision of the Conference of Ministers of the Interior of 21 and 22 June 2011, the latter had adopted the report of the working group and addressed corresponding demands to the Federation for the maintenance of technical and personnel skills.

- In June 2011, the Federal Government adopted the report of the Working Group and addressed the corresponding demands for the maintenance of technical and personnel skills to the Federal Government. The efforts of the Conference of Interior Ministers in the examination of the stationing decisions in the Federal Ministry of Defence have not been disregarded.

- The efforts of the Interior Minister's Conference in the examination of the stationing decisions in the Federal Ministry of Defence have not been disregarded. In this respect, partial successes could already be recorded immediately after the announcement of the stationing decisions on 26 October 2011, such as the maintenance of the Landeskommandos and the concept of the ZMZ bases.

- In this respect, partial successes could already be recorded immediately after the announcement of the stationing decisions on 26 October 2011, such as the maintenance of the Landeskommandos and the concept of the ZMZ bases. Nevertheless, certain restrictions on cooperation cannot be excluded due to the decision to close down and reduce the locations, since the longer time-limits of the Bundeswehr support forces inevitably result from the larger distances.

- However, certain restrictions on cooperation cannot be ruled out by the decision to close and reduce sites, since the longer distances inevitably lead to longer periods of arrival by the Bundeswehr's support forces. This circumstance is particularly important in a land area as sparsely populated as Mecklenburg-Vorpommern with a correspondingly low density of civil protection workers.

- This circumstance is particularly important in a land as sparsely populated as Mecklenburg-Vorpommern with a correspondingly low density of civil protection workers. However, the Bundeswehr will, according to its own evidence, continue to be present in the area and will be able to support the local authorities in dealing with natural disasters and other major damage situations with their special capabilities.

- However, according to its own evidence, the Bundeswehr will continue to be fundamentally present in the area and will be able to support the local authorities in dealing with natural disasters and other major damage situations with their special capabilities. This has been impressively demonstrated by the Bundeswehr, for example, in dealing with the 2013 flood disaster.

- This has been impressively demonstrated by the Bundeswehr, for example, when dealing with the 2013 flood disaster. However, it has to be taken into account that not all disaster scenarios, such as the "classical" flood disaster, have certain lead times in order to make timely provision for the provision of needed man-power.

- However, it has to be taken into account that not all disaster scenarios, such as the "classic" flood disaster, have certain lead times to make timely provision for the provision of needed man-power. Moreover, the Bundeswehr is seeking to compensate for the reduction of sites and stationed forces by establishing the units of the "Regional Security and Support Forces" consisting of reserve members.

- In addition, the Bundeswehr aims to compensate for the reduction of sites and stationed forces associated with the reform by the units of the "Regional Security and Support Forces". The consequences of the structural reform of the Bundeswehr regarding the developments in the availability of the resources of the Bundeswehr for acute disaster response and in the recruitment of young people in civil protection remain in the view of the authorities responsible for civil protection of the Federal and the Länder, in particular the Interior Minister Conference and its working group V "Feuerwehrangelegenheiten, Rettungswesen, Katastrophesschutz und civilian defence".

- The consequences of the structural reform of the Bundeswehr regarding the developments in the availability of the resources of the Bundeswehr for the acute disaster response and in the recruitment of young people in civil protection remain in the perspective of the authorities responsible for civil protection of the Federal Government and the Länder, in particular the Interior Minister Conference and its working group V "Fire Weir Affairs, Rescue, Civil Protection and Defence". 10 Ministry of Interior and Sports Mecklenburg-Vorpommern Unit II 450 4 Starting position Mecklenburg-Vorpommern

