# 4.1

- Civil Protection Programme of the State Government of Mecklenburg-Vorpommern 2000 In February 2000, the state government decided on a civil protection programme, the aim of which was to create a medium-term perspective for the further development of civil protection in Mecklenburg-Vorpommern after a ten-year nationwide construction of basic structures.This need arose in particular from the reorganization of civil protection by the Federal Government.

- This need arose in particular from the reorganization of civil protection by the Federal Government. The foreign policy situation prompted the Federal Government to reduce many areas of civil protection during this period or to see civil protection only as a supplement to the civil protection of the countries.

- The foreign policy situation prompted the federal government to reduce many areas of civil protection during this period or to understand civil protection only as a supplement to the civil protection of the countries. Civil protection in Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania was built up throughout the financial possibilities.

- Civil protection in Mecklenburg-Vorpommern was built on a comprehensive basis within the framework of the financial possibilities. In all former districts and district-free cities there was a comprehensive basic protection for disaster response.

- In all former counties and non-circular cities there was a comprehensive basic protection for disaster response. Many authorities, organisations, associations and companies contributed to this development.

- Many authorities, organisations, associations and companies have contributed to this development. In particular, the numerous volunteers in the organisations and institutions made a significant contribution to the development of civil protection through their tireless commitment.

