# 4.3

- Impact of the district reform on the organisation of civil protection The changed structural framework conditions (population development in the country as well as the financial situation of the country and its municipal authorities) in Mecklenburg-Vorpommern have made it necessary to adapt the structure of the districts.On 7 July 2010, the Mecklenburg-Vorpommern Landtag passed the law on the creation of sustainable structures of the districts and non-district cities of Mecklenburg-Vorpommern (district structure law).

- On 7 July 2010, the Landtag Mecklenburg-Vorpommern passed the law on the creation of sustainable structures in the districts and non-district cities of the state of Mecklenburg-Vorpommern (district structure law). The larger structures decided upon require an adjustment of the structure and organisation of the civil protection.

- The larger structures decided upon require adaptation of the structure and organisation of civil protection. Here it is important, in coordination with the local agencies of civil protection (districts and non-circular cities acc.

- In this case, it is necessary to create effective and sustainable structures in consultation with the local civil protection agencies (districts and county-free cities in accordance with § 2 of the Mecklenburg-Vorpommern Civil Disaster Protection Act) and with the aid organizations, which are permanently able to maintain the necessary security structures, to meet the requirements of a modern crisis management system and in particular to enable voluntary engagement of the population.

- § 2 of the Mecklenburg-Vorpommern State Disaster Protection Act) and the aid organizations to create viable and sustainable structures that are permanently able to maintain the necessary security structures, to meet the requirements of a modern crisis management system and to enable in particular voluntary engagement of the population. The measures necessary from this disaster protection concept at the municipal level are already transferred by the current state disaster protection law and thus also covered.

- The measures required by this civil protection concept at the municipal level are already transferred by the existing state disaster protection law and thus also covered. The streamlining of administrative and management structures of the lower 12 Ministry of the Interior and Sports Mecklenburg-Vorpommern Unit II 450 civil protection authorities can result in savings potential as a result of the district reform.

- The streamlining of administrative and management structures of the lower 12 Ministry of the Interior and Sports Mecklenburg-Vorpommern Unit II 450 Civil Protection Authorities can result in potential savings as a result of the district reform.

