# 5.1

- Risk and risk analyses State of play Risk analyses form an important basis for the planning of adequate prevention and preparation measures for the protection of the population in exceptional danger situations. In addition to the probability of occurrence of a damage, the existing management capacities must also be taken into account.

- In addition to the probability of the occurrence of a damage, the existing management capacities must be taken into account. On the basis of these findings, effective measures to protect the population and its livelihoods can be taken in a targeted manner.

- Based on these findings, effective measures to protect the population and their livelihoods can be taken in a targeted manner. According to the Mecklenburg-Vorpommern Civil Protection Act, it is up to the civil protection authorities to prevent and ward off disasters.

- According to the Mecklenburg-Vorpommern State Disaster Protection Act, it is up to the civil protection authorities to prevent and ward off disasters. This presupposes the identification and assessment of the possible disasters and special hazards in Mecklenburg-Vorpommern.

- This presupposes the identification and assessment of the possible disasters and special hazards in Mecklenburg-Vorpommern. Although such hazards do not occur frequently, their effects can cause considerable damage.

- Although such threats do not occur frequently, they can cause considerable damage to their effects. This is precisely why adequate civil protection planning is at the heart of a seamless transition from normal everyday life to rapid, appropriate decisions by civil protection authorities in coordinating and steering necessary defence actions.

- It is precisely for this reason that adequate civil protection planning is at the core of a seamless transition from normal everyday life to rapid and appropriate decisions by civil protection authorities in the coordination and management of necessary defence actions. Scientific risk analyses form an essential basis for effective civil protection.

- Scientific risk analyses form an essential basis for effective civil protection. Concept After the risk analysis Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania was prepared in the period 1999-2005 and the vulnerability with regard to 10 hazard priorities was determined, it is now necessary to update these and to realize the production of risk analyses for deficit determination in the security potentials for selected hazard priorities (e.g. CBRN locations and failure KRITIS) and particularly vulnerable regions.

- Concept After the risk analysis of Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania was prepared in the period 1999-2005 and the vulnerability with regard to 10 hazard priorities was determined, it is now necessary to update it and for selected hazard priorities (e.g. CBRN locations and failure KRITIS) and particularly vulnerable regions to realize the production of risk analyses for deficit determination in the security potentials. On the basis of these risk analyses, which have to be carried out according to a federal methodology, the adaptation of the security potentials must take place.

- On the basis of these risk analyses, which have to be carried out according to a federal methodology, the adaptation of security potentials has to take place. Only in this way an optimal guarantee of the safety of the population is possible.

- This is the only way to ensure the safety of the population. 13 Ministry of the Interior and Sports Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania Unit II 450 Financial impact The production of scientific risk analyses can cause additional costs.

- 13 Ministry of the Interior and Sport Mecklenburg-Vorpommern Unit II 450 Financial Impacts The production of scientific risk analyses may entail additional costs, which would be limited in time.

- These would be limited in time. For experts, 10,000 euros are planned annually from 2014 in Chapter 0405.

