# 5.2

- Design DISMA State of play In support of the crisis management of the civil protection authorities in the event of major damage events and disasters, the DISMA (Disaster Management) emergency management system was introduced in all districts and non-circular cities as well as in the then State Office for Civil Protection in Mecklenburg-Vorpommern in 1996.This program system was continuously developed in the following years to meet the new requirements for modern emergency management.

- This programme system has been continuously developed in the following years to meet the new requirements for modern emergency management. The DISMA programme system offers effective support in emergency planning and in the preparation of risk and risk analyses as well as in the development and continuation of the civil protection plans.

- The DISMA programme system provides effective support in contingency planning and in the preparation of risk and risk analyses, as well as in the development and development of civil protection plans. In addition, DISMA has also proven its worth in preventing exceptional events, such as avian influenza in 2006.

- In addition, DISMA has also proven its worth in the fight against exceptional events, such as avian influenza in 2006. In this context, reference should be made in particular to the integrated geographical information system, which enables the detection and presentation of hazardous areas and the identification of endangered objects.

- In this context, reference should be made in particular to the integrated geographical information system, which enables the identification and presentation of hazardous areas and the identification of endangered objects. This technology is also used in the identification and evaluation of hazardous areas in connection with CBRN hazards both in the planning phase (creating external emergency plans for emergency facilities with extended obligations) and in the prevention of these events.

- This technology is also used in the identification and assessment of risk areas related to CBRN hazards both in the planning phase (creating external emergency plans for emergency facilities with extended obligations) and in the prevention of these events. Concept In total, DISMA has developed into an indispensable working tool of civil protection authorities and is to be continuously developed in the following years to meet the new requirements for modern emergency management.

- Concept All in all, DISMA has developed into an indispensable working tool for civil protection authorities and will continue to develop in the following years in order to meet the new requirements for modern emergency management. The focus for further development is in particular the networking and central data coordination of the DISMA file systems of the civil protection authorities to optimize communication in the fight against exceptional situations and the integration of the federal risk analysis into the program system.

- The focus for further development is in particular the networking and central data coordination of the DISMA file systems of the civil protection authorities to optimize communication in the defence against exceptional situations and the integration of the federal risk analysis into the program system. In the further development of DISMA, offers of the GeoPortal are offered.

- In the further development of DISMA, offers of the GeoPortal. MV and the geodata infrastructure Mecklenburg-Vorpommern (GDI-MV) are examined for use in civil protection.

- MV and the Mecklenburg-Vorpommern geodata infrastructure (GDI-MV) for use in civil protection. This also applies to the integration of service-based spatial data provision.

- This also applies to the integration of service-based spatial data provision. 14 Ministry of the Interior and Sports Mecklenburg-Vorpommern Unit II 450 Financial Impact From 2014, 13,000 euros are foreseen for the further development of DISMA as a non-police security procedure in Chapter 0406.

