# 5.3

- Critical infrastructures State of play Critical infrastructures are organisations and institutions with an important role in the state community, in the event of a failure or impairment of sustainable supply bottlenecks, significant disturbances of public security or other dramatic consequences.Critical infrastructures are divided into the following sectors: - Energy - Information technology and telecommunications - Transport and transport - Finance and insurance - Health - Government and administration - Water - Nutrition - Media and culture Due to the great dependence of almost all critical infrastructures on electricity supply, the scenario of a large-scale and long-term power failure is of central importance with the consequence of massive supply disruptions, economic damage and threats to public security.

- The critical infrastructures are divided into the following sectors: - Energy - Information technology and telecommunications - Transport and transport - Finance and insurance - Health - State and administration - Water - Nutrition - Media and culture Due to the great dependence of almost all critical infrastructures on electricity supply, the scenario of a large-scale and long-term power failure with the consequence of massive supply disruptions, economic damage and threats to public security is of central importance. Concept The protection of critical infrastructures in Germany is a social task that the state, the economy (company and operator) and the public have to deal with together and within the framework of a coordinated approach.

- Concept The protection of critical infrastructures in Germany is a task for society as a whole that the state, the economy (company and operator) and the public have to deal with together and within the framework of a coordinated approach. In order to lead the joint action to success, strategic goals are necessary, which describe the fundamental thinking, action and behaviour in all major security policy issues for the protection of critical infrastructures against all relevant risks.

- In order to lead joint action to success, strategic goals are necessary, which describe the fundamental thinking, action and behaviour in all essential security policy issues for the protection of critical infrastructures against all relevant risks. 15 Ministry of the Interior and Sports Mecklenburg-Vorpommern Unit II 450 Land and municipalities are jointly required to promote the protection of critical infrastructures and to implement them in their areas of competence.

- 15 Ministry of the Interior and Sport Mecklenburg-Vorpommern Unit II 450 Land and municipalities are jointly required to promote the protection of critical infrastructures and to implement them in their areas of responsibility. A structured implementation procedure is appropriate, which consists of the following, partly parallel, work packages: - definition of general protection objectives, - analysis of hazards, vulnerabilities and coping capacities, - assessment of hazards and - clarification of protection objectives, including existing protective measures; analysis of existing regulations and, where appropriate, derivation of further measures to achieve the objectives; if necessary legislation.

- For this purpose, a structured implementation procedure is appropriate, consisting of the following, partly parallel, work packages: - definition of general protection objectives, - analysis of hazards, vulnerabilities and management capacities, - assessment of hazards and - concreteisation of protection objectives, including existing protective measures; analysis of existing regulations and, where appropriate, derivation of further measures to achieve objectives; where appropriate, regulation. The protection of critical infrastructures serves the purpose of providing reliable services that are important for the economy or are indispensable for the security and order of the community.

- The protection of critical infrastructures serves the purpose of ensuring that essential services, which are economically important or essential for the security and order of the community, are reliably provided. The knowledge of the stability of the system of critical infrastructure is exclusively provided by the operators and the corresponding associations.

- The knowledge of the stability of the critical infrastructure system is only provided by the operators and the relevant associations. It is therefore up to them to analyse the respective system behaviour by examining and documenting the process chains in terms of vulnerability, regeneration after collapse and performance to be restored in the future.

- It is therefore up to them to analyse the respective system behavior by examining and documenting the process chains in terms of vulnerability, regeneration after break-in and performance to be restored in view. Furthermore, they must determine to what extent and at what time they themselves are dependent on the performance of other critical infrastructures.

- In addition, they have to determine to what extent and at what time they themselves are dependent on the performance of other critical infrastructures. The task of civil protection is to combat the elementary damage effects which arise directly or indirectly from the elimination of the performance of critical infrastructures.

- The task of civil protection is to combat the fundamental effects of the loss of critical infrastructure directly or indirectly. In the framework of the protection of critical infrastructure, the responsibility principle applies.

- In the framework of the protection of critical infrastructures, the principle of the portfolio applies. Against this background, cross-resort coordination is recommended, if necessary within the framework of an Interministerial Working Group (IMAG), in relation to the sectors outlined above.

- Against this background, cross-departmental coordination, possibly within the framework of an interministerial working group (IMAG), is recommended in relation to the sectors described above. For example, the concept for the establishment and operation of a computer emergency response team for the state administration of Mecklenburg-Vorpommern (CERT M-V) is mentioned here.

- The concept for the construction and operation of a computer emergency response team for the state administration of Mecklenburg-Vorpommern (CERT M-V) is mentioned here. In particular, recommendations for a large-scale and longer-term power failure should be developed.

- In particular, recommendations for action should be drawn up for a large-scale and longer-term power failure.Financial Impact The implementation of the tasks may require the implementation of pilot projects, with no information on the financial impact at this stage.

- Financial impact The implementation of the tasks may require the implementation of pilot projects, with no information on the financial impact available at this stage.

- 16 Ministry of the Interior and Sport Mecklenburg-Vorpommern Unit II 450

