# 5.4

- Chemical-Biological-Radioactive-Nuclear Hazards (CBRN) State of play The protection of the population from the effects of chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear hazards is a central task due to the real political situation. This also includes the protection of the forces of fire brigades and relief organizations.

- This also includes the protection of fire brigades and relief organisations. The distinction between radiological (R) and nuclear (N) threat describes the different types of radioactive contamination.

- The distinction between radiological (R) and nuclear (N) threats describes the different types of discharges of radioactive contamination. Nuclear refers to the area of nuclear explosions and their consequences; radiologically, the other types of discharge, primarily in the form of a radioactive dispersion device (so-called "smug bomb").

- Nuclear refers to the area of nuclear explosions and their consequences; radiologically, the other types of application, primarily in the form of a radioactive dispersion device (so-called "smuggling bomb"), can reach the environment both intentionally and through an accident, for example during transport, and thus become a threat to the population.

- CBRN hazardous substances can enter the environment both intentionally and through an accident, for example during transport, and thus become a threat to the population. Analytic task force (ATF units) are currently being held at a total of seven locations in Germany.

- Analytical task force (ATF units) are currently being held at a total of seven locations in Germany. The locations were selected in such a way that each point in Germany is within a 200-km radius and can be reached in two to three hours.

- The locations were selected in such a way that every point in Germany is within a 200-km circle and can be reached in two to three hours.The locations of the ATF units are: - Fire Brigade Hamburg - Fire Brigade Mannheim - Fire Brigade Dortmund - Fire Brigade Cologne - Fire Brigade Munich - Fire Brigade Leipzig - Landeskriminalamt Berlin Building on the local CBRN defense structures, the ATF is to work with the tasks - detection and identification of dangerous chemical substances and mixtures of substances, - monitoring of large areas by means of remote sensing, - localization and identification of airborne pollutants, - situation assessment based on analysis results and toxicological aspects, 17 Ministry of Interior and Sports Mecklenburg-Vorpommern Unit II 450 - Assessment of situational development and - preparation of proposals for deployment measures (e.g. warning of the population, evacuation, decontamination measures).

- The locations of the ATF units are: - Fire Brigade Hamburg - Fire Brigade Mannheim - Fire Brigade Dortmund - Fire Brigade Cologne - Fire Brigade Munich - Fire Brigade Leipzig - State Criminal Office Berlin Building on the local CBRN defense structures, the ATF will work with the tasks - detection and identification of dangerous chemical substances and mixtures of substances, - monitoring of large areas by means of remote sensing, - localization and identification of airborne pollutants, - situation assessment based on analysis results and toxicological aspects, 17 Ministry of Interior and Sports Mecklenburg-Vorpommern Unit II 450 - Assessment of situational development and - development of proposals for operational measures (e.g. warning of the population, evacuation, decontamination measures). Mecklenburg-Vorpommern can ask the ATF Berlin and Hamburg for assistance if necessary.

- Mecklenburg-Vorpommern can ask the ATF Berlin and Hamburg for mutual assistance if necessary. In addition to the ATF, which focuses on the detection of chemical hazardous substances, a pilot project was launched in August 2012 to extend the range of applications to biological agents.

- In addition to the ATF, which focuses on the detection of chemical hazardous substances, a pilot project was launched in August 2012 to extend the range of applications to biological agents. The fire brigade Essen (in cooperation with the University Hospital Essen) and the State Criminal Office Berlin (in cooperation with the Robert Koch Institute) were named as pilot sites for the ATF Biological (AFT-B).

- The fire brigade Essen (in cooperation with the University Hospital Essen) and the Landeskriminalamt Berlin (in cooperation with the Robert Koch Institute) were named as pilot sites for the ATF Biologisch (AFT-B). ATF-B will be able to use molecular biological and immune biological detection methods in the future in order to be able to advise operational managers on site.

- The ATF-B should be able to use mobile molecular biological and immune biological detection methods in future in order to be able to advise operational managers on site. Locations ATF concept Within the framework of the Bund-Länder-Übung LÜKEX 09/10, this topic was analysed and need for action was seen among others in the following areas: - protection of persons in the danger area by appropriate measures, for example protective clothing, behavioural instructions, - introduction of a nationwide uniform measuring network, - rapid detection and identification of the specific danger, - countermeasures in contact with a hazardous substance, for example decontamination, behavioural instructions, - consideration of ethical aspects in the context of decontamination, - reception capacity and treatment possibilities of hospitals of contaminated injuries, 18 Ministry of Internal Affairs and Sports Mecklenburg-Vorpommern Unit II 450 - conceptual preparations for terrorist second and follow-up attacks, - verification of the suitability of the structures of the rescue service in terrorist situations, - review of hospital alarm plans with regard to the decontamination of injured and sick persons, - self-assurance of the medical facilities and personnel, - awareness of the operational forces for CBR and communication.

- Locations ATF Concept Within the framework of the federal-national exercise LÜKEX 09/10, this topic was analysed and the need for action was seen, among other things, in the following areas: - protection of persons in the danger area by appropriate measures, for example protective clothing, behavioural instructions, - introduction of a nationwide uniform measuring network, - rapid detection and identification of the specific danger, - countermeasures in contact with a hazardous substance, for example decontamination, behavioural instructions, - consideration of ethical aspects in the context of decontamination, - reception capacity and treatment possibilities of hospitals of contaminated injured persons, 18 Ministry of Interior and Sports Mecklenburg-Vorpommern Unit II 450 - conceptual preparations for terrorist second and follow-up attacks, - verification of the suitability of the structures of the rescue service in terrorist situations, - review of hospital alarm plans regarding the decontamination of injured and ill persons, - self-secution of medical institutions and personnel, - awareness of the forces for CBRN situations, - information and communication/public work. A country-open working group under the direction of the Federal Ministry of the Interior has developed a CBR-protection concept for the population protection.

- A transnational working group headed by the Federal Ministry of the Interior has developed a framework concept for CBRN protection for civil protection in Germany. This framework concept forms the common basis for all provisions and measures of the federal, state and local authorities in the state-wide cooperation in prevention (preparation), prevention (preparation), management (reaction) and follow-up (reparation) of CBRN hazards and damage situations in non-police security.

- This framework concept forms the common basis for all provisions and measures of the federal government, Länder and municipalities in the state-wide cooperation in prevention (prevention), prevention (preparation), management (reaction) and follow-up (reproduction) of CBRN-hazards and damage situations in the non-police security. Therefore, the requirements laid down in this concept must be taken into account at all levels of national crisis management.

- Therefore, the requirements laid down in this concept must be taken into account at all levels of national crisis management. As a result of this work and taking into account the above mentioned.

- As a result of this work and taking into account the above mentioned measures, it is necessary to develop a CBRN protection concept in civil protection together with the affected authorities in Mecklenburg-Vorpommern in the future and to find effective solutions for the implementation.

- In future, measures will have to be developed together with the affected authorities in Mecklenburg-Vorpommern to develop a CBRN protection concept in civil protection and to find targeted solutions for the implementation. In this context, the integration of the analytical task forces (ATF) provided at the federal level must be considered conceptually and supported planningally.

- In this context, the integration of the Analytical Task Forces (ATF) provided at the federal level must be taken into account conceptually and supported by planning. Lack of capacity in Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania must therefore be compensated by federal competence.

- Lack of capacity in Mecklenburg-Vorpommern is thus compensated by federal competence.Financial impact The establishment of the ATF in the other federal states does not incur any costs to the state of Mecklenburg-Vorpommern.

- Financial impact The establishment of the ATF in the above-mentioned federal states does not entail any costs for the state of Mecklenburg-Vorpommern. The rules of mutual assistance apply to the use of the ATF.

- The rules of mutual assistance apply to the use of ATFs. Additional financial implications due to the CBRN protection concept are not yet foreseen.

- Additional financial implications due to the CBRN protection concept are not yet foreseen and the corresponding review remains to be seen.

