# 5.5

- State of play of the population One of the cornerstones of civil and civil protection is the adequate, timely, rapid and comprehensive warning of existing threats to the population. Today's approach to warning the population is based on the use of various modern and forward-looking technologies.

- The current concept for warning the population is based on the use of various modern and forward-looking technologies. On 15 October 2001 19 Ministry of Interior and Sports Mecklenburg-Vorpommern Unit II 450 commissioned the satellite-based warning system (SatWaS).

- On 15 October 2001 19 Ministry of the Interior and Sports Mecklenburg-Vorpommern Unit II 450 was commissioned by the Federal Government of Mecklenburg-Vorpommern to operate the satellite-based warning system (SatWaS). The civil protection liaison points (ZSVerbSt) set up for the detection of air hazards and the warning against large-scale radiological hazards, the Bonn Warnzentrale (WarnZ Bonn) and the situation centers of the Länder were equipped with the necessary SatWaS transmission and reception systems.

- The civil protection liaison points (ZSVerbSt) set up for the detection of air hazards and the warning against large-scale radiological hazards, the Warnzentrale Bonn (WarnZ Bonn) as well as the situation centers of the countries were equipped with the necessary SatWaS transmission and reception systems. SatWaS makes it possible to transmit warning messages and hazard announcements with highest priority via satellite to the connected media and multipliers in seconds.

- SatWaS makes it possible to transmit alerts and alerts with the highest priority via satellite to the connected media and multipliers in seconds. A special focus is the warning about the radio.

- A special focus is the warning about broadcasting. Broadcasting offers the possibility not only to warn against dangers, but to pass on traffic-related codes of conduct to the population at the same time.

- Broadcasting offers the opportunity not only to warn against dangers, but to pass on traffic-related codes of conduct to the population at the same time. Regarding a large-scale and longer-term power failure, reference is made to point 5.3 - Critical Infrastructures.

- With regard to a large-scale and longer-term power failure, reference is made to point 5.3 -Critical Infrastructures. A uniform and comprehensive system for warning the population (apart from warning messages that can be distributed via radio and television) does not exist in Mecklenburg-Vorpommern.

- There is no uniform and comprehensive system for warning the population (apart from warning messages that can be distributed via radio and television) in Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania. By dismantling the comprehensive siren system, there is no way to raise awareness of imminent dangers (wake effect).

- The removal of the comprehensive siren system means that there is no way to raise awareness of threats (wake effect). Concept The future Modular Warning System (MoWaS) is intended to enable a person responsible for civil protection to trigger all warning systems in his area of responsibility directly and without media break.

- Concept The future Modular Warning System (MoWaS) is intended to enable a person responsible for civil protection to trigger all warning systems in his area of responsibility directly and without media break. The determining parameters are in particular a central and decentralized trigger, the flexible addressability, a spatial scalability, a federal user interface and the consideration of the specific country and community needs.

- The determining parameters are in particular a central and decentralized trigger, the flexible addressability, a spatial scalability, a federal user interface and the consideration of the specific country and community needs. For security reasons, an installation of the transmitters in facilities, which are continuously occupied, with access restrictions (control centres/location centers) is planned.

- For security reasons, it is planned to install the transmitters in facilities that are continuously occupied, with access restrictions (control centres/restaurant centres). In the case of the major natural disasters and technical disasters of recent years, it has been confirmed nationally and internationally that broadcasting is a very suitable means of warning and information.

- In the case of the major natural and technical disasters of recent years, it has been confirmed nationally and internationally that broadcasting is a very suitable means of warning and information. However, additional warning elements are necessary, which by means of appropriate signals alert the population at an early stage of threat and have the ability to "awaken up".

- However, additional warning elements are needed that alert the population at an early stage to threats and have the ability to "awaken up". In particular, the concerns of deaf and deaf people will also be taken into account.

- In particular, the interests of deaf and deaf people will also be taken into account. The Federal Office for Civil Protection and Disaster Relief, together with the German Association for the Protection of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the Hearing of the

- For example, the Federal Office for Civil Protection and Disaster Relief together with the German Heavy Hearing Association (DSB) and the German Deaf Association e.

- V. (DSB) and the German Deaf Bund e. V. set up a working group which will examine, among other things, the barrier-free aspects of the MoWaS system.

- V. set up a working group which will investigate, among other things, the barrier-free aspects of the MoWaS system. In order to achieve acceptance and understanding among the population, different communication media of everyday life can be used as end devices to transmit the warning.

- In order to achieve acceptance and understanding among the population, different communication media of everyday life can be used as devices to transmit the warning. 20 Ministry of the Interior and Sports Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania Unit II 450 Federal and Länder have been examining since 2009 whether and to what extent the "wake effect" can be realized.

- 20 Ministry of the Interior and Sports Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania Unit II 450 Federal and Länder have been examining since 2009 whether and to what extent the "wake effect" can be realized. The tendency is to rely on several technologies in addition to the satellite-based warning system.

- The tendency is to rely on several technologies, in addition to the satellite-based warning system. This makes it possible to use warning media optimised for the purpose of use (for example sirens for outdoor warning in urban and industrial areas, fire smoke detectors for indoor warning, mobile services for individual warning) and to transmit rapid and situationally adapted warnings and information to the population by using a variety of modern communication and information services available on the surface in hazardous situations.

- This makes it possible to use warning media optimized for the purpose of use (e.g. sirens for outdoor warning in urban and industrial areas, fire smoke detectors for indoor warning, mobile communications services for individual warning) and to transmit rapid and situation-adapted warnings and information to the population by using a large number of modern communication and information services available in the area in danger situations. The following explains the principle of the modular warning system and describes the advantages of the system.

- The following explains the principle of the modular warning system and the advantages of the system. The extended system has three main advantages: • It can be installed in the local and regional control stations.

- The extended system has three main advantages: • It can be installed in the local and regional control centres. So far, SatWaS has only been available at the level of the Interior Ministries (Bundes und Länder) as well as at the responsible federal authority (Federal Office for Civil Protection and Disaster Relief).

- Until now, SatWaS has only been available at the level of the Interior Ministries (Bundes und Länder) as well as at the responsible Federal Office for Civil Protection and Disaster Relief. In future, the local authorities will also be able to pass on official hazard announcements for their area of responsibility, i.e. for their municipality or district, directly and immediately to the media.

- In the future, the local authorities will also be able to pass on official hazard announcements for their area of responsibility, i.e. for their municipality or district, directly and immediately to the media. • A standardized interface will enable a large number of systems suitable for alerting the population with and without wake effect 21 Ministry of Interior and Sports Mecklenburg-Vorpommern Unit II 450 to be connected in the future.

- • A standardized interface will enable a large number of systems suitable for alerting the population with and without wake-up effect to be connected to 21 Ministry of Interior and Sports Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania Unit II 450. According to current planning, inter alia sirens, smoke detectors, mobile phones (for example via so-called apps), regional warning systems are planned.

- According to current planning, sirens, smoke detectors, mobile phones (for example via so-called apps), regional warning systems are provided. • Warning announcements are georeferenced in MoWaS.

- • Warning announcements are georeferenced in MoWaS. This makes it possible to selectively send messages to the affected area with behavioural hints or alarms with wake-up effect (sirens, smoke detectors, mobile communications).

- This makes it possible to selectively send messages to the affected area with behavioural hints or warnings with wake-up effect (sirens, smoke detectors, mobile communications). This also makes it possible to connect modern, spatially unbound everyday communication devices, such as smartphones.

- The connection of modern spatially unbound everyday communication means, such as smartphones, is thus also conceivable. Modern possibilities, such as satellite-based location procedures and services (GPS, GALLILEO, SAPOS), should be used more intensively.

- Modern possibilities, such as satellite-based location procedures and services (GPS, GALLILEO, SAPOS) should be used more intensively. Cooperation with the Centre for Satellite-based Crisis Information (ZKI) should be strengthened.

- Cooperation with the Center for Satellite-Based Crisis Information (ZKI) should be expanded.Financial Impact The warning of the population is a common task of the federal government, the Länder, the counties and the non-circular cities.

- Financial impact The warning of the population represents a common task of the federal government, the Länder, the counties and the district-free cities. The federal government bears the costs incurred for the extension of the SatWaS transmission performance, the construction of the warning server up to the integrated control stations at the circuit level, the development/implementation of a user interface and the interfaces for the connection of the warning devices.

- The Federal Government shall bear the costs incurred for the extension of the SatWaS transmission performance, the construction of the warning server up to the integrated control points at the circuit level, the development/implementation of a user interface and the interfaces for the connection of the warning devices. To this end, it is necessary to determine in advance in the context of a pilot project in particular the suitable warning devices in the Land of Mecklenburg-Vorpommern.

- For this purpose, it is necessary to determine in advance within the framework of a pilot project in particular the appropriate warning means in the Land Mecklenburg-Vorpommern. In addition, the federal government takes over the financing of the initial investment and the running operating costs of two MoWaS plants per country (in one location centre of the state and as redundancy in an integrated control centre of a district/circuit-free city).

- In addition, the Federal Government will finance the initial investment and the operating costs of two MoWaS plants per country (in a location centre of the country and as redundancy in an integrated control centre of a county/circuit-free city). The Land considers it necessary to implement the conversion of the control centres uniformly.

- The country considers it necessary to implement uniformly the conversion of the control centres, with no budget allocated to the country.

- Subject to the results of the pilot project, it is planned to promote the extension of the siren system as a priority task in order to increase the proportion of the population, which can be made aware of dangers by means of sirens.

- Subject to the results of the pilot project, it is intended to promote the expansion of the siren system as a priority task in order to increase the proportion of the population, which can be made aware of imminent dangers by means of sirens.

- The installation of sirens in the county-free cities and in the large county-related cities is expedient. Currently, only individual sirens are present in these cities and the wake-up effect for about 30 percent of the country's total population does not exist.

- At present, only individual sirens are present in these cities and the wake-up effect for about 30 percent of the country's total population is not given. A funding of 50 percent of the investment costs would amount to a total budget of approximately 700,000 euros.

- A funding of 50 percent of the investment costs would amount to a total budget of approximately 700,000 euros. As a first step, the expansion of the siren system would amount to a budget of 50,000 euros in the medium term (2016),

