# 5.6

- Psychosocial emergency care Condition Psychosocial emergency care (PSNV) after serious emergencies and accidents is now part of the standard of care both nationally and internationally. Since the quality of technical tasks in civil protection depends to a large extent on the health and operational capacity of the emergency service force, a comprehensive, comprehensive and short- and long-term pastoral, psychological and psychosocial assistance should be available for any force affected by extreme stress who wishes or needs psychosocial support, as is generally the case for all citizens affected by an emergency event.

- Since the quality of the technical task management in civil protection depends to a large extent on the health and operational capacity of the operational force, a comprehensive, comprehensive and short- and long-term pastoral, psychological and psychosocial assistance for every force affected by extreme stress, who wants or needs psychosocial support, should be available as a matter of principle for all citizens affected by an emergency event. In Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, a nationwide network for psychosocial emergency care (PSNV) was established on the initiative of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Sport.

- In Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, a national network for psychosocial emergency care (PSNV) was set up on the initiative of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Sport. In the districts and county-free cities, teams of emergency care and emergency care were set up, which are used in case of serious accidents for the care of the survivors, relatives, survivors and missing persons.

- In the counties and county-free cities teams of emergency care and emergency care were set up, which are used in case of serious accidents for the care of the survivors, relatives, survivors and missing persons. A variety of accidents and disasters have also sharpened the view for the occupational mental stress of the emergency personnel.

- A large number of accidents and disasters have also sharpened the view for the occupational psychological stresses of emergency personnel. For this reason, an SbE team (stress management after stressful operations) is available for the care of the members of the fire brigades and for rescue workers of the relief organizations.

- For this reason, an SbE team (stress management after incriminating operations) is available for the care of the members of the fire brigades and for rescue workers of the relief organizations. With a view to a comprehensive networking of the PSNV in everyday life and advance of a large damage situation, the regional central office Psychosocial Emergency Care was established permanently in 2011 with the decision of the cabinet.

- With a view to a comprehensive networking of the PSNV in everyday life and in the run-up to a major damage situation, the state centre Psychosocial Emergency Care was established permanently in 2011 with the decision of the Cabinet. It is located at the Institute of Medical Psychology of the University of Greifswald.

- It is located at the Institute of Medical Psychology of the University of Greifswald. Concept The long-term goal is to develop psychosocial emergency care into an efficient, integral component of security in the interests of those affected by accidents and disasters.

- Concept The long-term goal is to develop psychosocial emergency care into an efficient, integral part of security in the interests of those affected by accidents and disasters. In this context, PSNV measures for the two target groups - fire brigades, rescue services, police, civil protection, THW and the Bundeswehr as well as survivors, relatives, survivors, witnesses and/or missing persons are to be differentiated and accompanied due to the different needs.

- PSNV measures for the two target groups - fire brigades, rescue services, police, civil protection, THW and the Bundeswehr as well as survivors, relatives, survivors, witnesses and/or missing persons due to the different needs are to be differentiated and accompanied. On the basis of the quality standards and guidelines developed in the context of a nationwide consensus process, the 23 Ministry of Interior and Sports Mecklenburg-Vorpommern Unit II is to ensure 450 quality of the supply of burdened forces as well as of victims and relatives of accidents on a broad and well-founded scientific basis.

- On the basis of the quality standards and guidelines developed in the framework of a nationwide consensus process, the 23 Ministry of Interior and Sports Mecklenburg-Vorpommern Unit II 450 quality of care for stressed forces as well as victims and relatives of accidents will be ensured on a broad and well-founded scientific basis in Mecklenburg-Vorpommern. Supporting the already formed State Advisory Council PSNV, the state central office PSNV will provide technical advice and recommendations for further activities.

- The PSNV Regional Advisory Council, which has already been formed, will provide technical advice to the PSNV Central Office and provide recommendations for further activities.Financial impact According to the Cabinet Decision of 20 December 2011, the financing of psychosocial emergency care measures will be taken into account in the budget of the ministries concerned (Ministry of Home Affairs and Sports, Ministry of Education, Science and Culture/University Medicine Greifswald, Ministry of Labour, Gender Equality and Social Affairs).

- Financial impact According to the Cabinet Decision of 20 December 2011, the financing of psychosocial emergency care measures will be taken into account in the budget of the ministries concerned (Ministry of Home Affairs and Sports, Ministry of Education, Science and Culture/University Medicine Greifswald, Ministry of Labour, Gender Equality and Social Affairs).In the division of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Sport, EUR 80,000 per year is estimated in Chapter 0405.

- The Ministry of Home Affairs and Sport has an annual budget of 80,000 euros in Chapter 0405. In Chapter 1002 (Title 525.05), the Ministry of Labour, Gender Equality and Social Affairs provides 10,000 euros annually for training and supervision of voluntary emergency care and emergency care teams in the context of psychosocial emergency care (PSNV).

