# 5.7

- Person information in case of major damage situations and disasters Situational status In case of disasters and major damage situations with a large number of affected persons there is a considerable need for information with the relatives but also rescue forces and investigating authorities about the whereabouts or the condition of the affected persons. Evacuates, homeless, missing persons, injured and dead must also be recorded and registered.

- Evacuated, homeless, missing, injured and dead must also be recorded and registered. By decree of the Ministry of the Interior, 1996 it was established that the relevant civil protection authorities set up personal information centres.

- In order to ensure a uniform procedure, private aid organisations involved in civil protection were set up in 1998 in consultation with the DRCs to set up the district information offices as official information centres after the registration of the affected persons by the local forces.

- In order to ensure a uniform procedure, private aid organisations involved in civil protection were set up in 1998 in consultation with the DRC - circle associations, after the registration of the affected persons by the forces on the ground, to set up the district information offices as official information points. To support one or more district information offices or in special cases, in particular when registering a larger number of persons, in groups of persons with children and young people or foreign citizens or during evacuations, the information is provided by the regional information office at the DRC's regional association.

- In order to support one or more district information offices or in special cases, in particular when registering a larger number of persons, groups of persons with children and young people or foreign citizens or during evacuations, the information is provided by the regional information office at the regional association of the DRK. The agreement to set up the regional information office between the regional association of the DRK and the Ministry of Interior and Sports Mecklenburg-Vorpommern was signed on 7 May 2010.

- The agreement to set up the Landesausberichtsbüro between the Regional Association of the DRK and the Ministry of Interior and Sports Mecklenburg-Vorpommern was signed on 7 May 2010. This agreement governs the use of personal data and the realization of the 24 Ministry of Interior and Sports Mecklenburg-Vorpommern Unit II 450 Information Systems in the Landesausberichtsbüro using the IT application GSL.

- This agreement governs the use of personal data and the realization of the 24 Ministry of the Interior and Sports Mecklenburg-Vorpommern Unit II 450 Information Systems in the State Information Office using the IT application GSL. net (IT support for major damage situations).

- net (IT support for major damage situations). The application GSL.

- The application GSL. net is a standalone web application with database connection.

- net is a standalone web application with database connection. This program is used jointly by DRK and police and has the advantage that data on the damage situation only have to be entered once by an organizational unit, but other organizational units can use this data to manage the situation.

- This program is used jointly by DRK and the police and has the advantage that data for the damage situation only have to be entered once by an organizational unit, but other organizational units can use this data for the management of the situation. GSL.

- GSL. net was developed by the state of North Rhine-Westphalia and is available as a unified composite solution in accordance with the decision of the Working Group II "Inner Security" and the Working Group V "Fire Weir Affairs, Rescue, Civil Protection and Defence" of the Standing Conference of Home Affairs Ministers and Senators of the Länder.

- net was developed by the state of North Rhine-Westphalia and is available as a unified composite solution according to the decision of the Working Group II "Innere Sicherheit" as well as the Working Group V "Fire Weir Affairs, Rescue, Civil Protection and Defence" of the Standing Conference of Home Affairs Ministers and Senators of the Länder. Concept The personnel of the State Information Office must be trained according to plan, especially when new program versions are introduced, and in exercises of the civil protection authorities.

- Concept The staff of the National Information Office must be trained according to plan, especially when new program versions are introduced, and involved in exercises of the civil protection authorities.The procedure for the transfer of the data collected by the District Information Offices into the application GSL.

- The procedure for the transfer of the data collected by the district information offices into the application GSL. net has to be optimised.

- The data protection regulations must be observed when using this network and retrieval procedure.

- The data protection regulations must be observed in the use of this network and retrieval procedure. Financial impact Every year 37,800 euros are set, additionally every 3 years 16,200 euros (2014, 2017) in chapter 0405.

