# 5.8

- Intensification of health protection in Mecklenburg-Vorpommern State of play According to the Constitution, the protection of health is a high level of protection.The new strategy includes health care as a relevant topic.

- The new strategy includes health care as a relevant topic. It forms the basis for the joint efforts of the federal, state and local authorities to ensure adequate health care and adequate health protection.

- It forms the basis for the joint efforts of the Federal Government, Länder and municipalities to ensure adequate health care and adequate health protection. According to § 29 paragraph 1 Landeskrankenhausgesetz Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, the hospital authorities are obliged to enter into agreements with the relevant emergency services, fire protection and civil protection authorities on the organisation of a central bed certificate.

- According to § 29 paragraph 1 Landeskrankenhausgesetz Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, the hospital authorities are obliged to enter into agreements with the relevant emergency services, fire protection and civil protection authorities regarding the organisation of a central bed certificate. In addition, as per § 9 paragraph 6 Landeskrankenhausgesetz Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, rehabilitation clinics can be obliged to take up 450 catastrophes and major damage events inpatients at 25 Ministry of Interior and Sports Mecklenburg-Vorpommern Unit II.

- In addition, as per § 9 paragraph 6 Landeskrankenhausgesetz Mecklenburg-Vorpommern rehabilitation clinics can be obliged to take up 450 catastrophes and major damage events inpatients at 25 Ministry of Interior and Sports Mecklenburg-Vorpommern Unit II. Furthermore, the hospitals are obliged to set up alarm and emergency plans for participation in fire and civil protection, to coordinate with the relevant authorities and to participate in exercises.

- In addition, hospitals are obliged to set up alarm and emergency plans to participate in fire and civil protection, to coordinate with the competent authorities and to participate in exercises. Neighboring hospitals have to coordinate their alarm and emergency plans and to support each other.

- Neighbouring hospitals have to coordinate their alarm and deployment plans and support each other. Concept There is a need for action, especially in situations of danger, where the country sees a focus in the area of coping with the mass attack conventionally or through CBRN substances injured, epidemics or pandemics.

- Concept Action is needed, in particular, in situations of danger where the country sees a focus in the area of coping with the mass attack conventionally or through CBRN substances injured, epidemics or pandemics. Moreover, the medical management of large-scale, nationally significant danger and damage situations must cover the entire rescue chain.

- In addition, the medical management of large-scale, nationally significant danger and damage situations must cover the entire rescue chain, which, in addition to self-help, includes first aid and preclinical as well as outpatient or clinical care for the injured persons.

- In addition to self-help, this includes first aid and preclinical as well as outpatient or clinical care for the injured persons. In this system, all actors must coordinate the respective tasks and interact smoothly with each other during the planning and event phases.

- In this system, all actors must coordinate their respective tasks and interact smoothly with each other in planning and in the event of an incident, with a need for effective communication between civil protection and health authorities.

- The following priorities need to be taken into account: - Medical care for large-scale damage, conceptual requirements for hospital alarm planning or emergency plans, medical material stockpiling/precaution planning, - Medical prevention planning for large-scale and/or nationally significant CBRN hazards, - Standards for organization, operational planning and tactics, logistics, quality management, personnel and material equipment in medical disaster protection.

- The following priorities must be taken into account: - medical care for major damage situations, conceptual requirements for hospital alarm planning or hospital alarm plans, medical material stockpiling/precaution planning, - medical prevention planning for large-scale and/or nationally significant CBRN hazards, - standards for organization, operational planning and tactics, logistics, quality management, personnel and material equipment in medical disaster protection. These priorities must be underpinned in the medium term in close cooperation with the Ministry of Labour, Gender Equality and Social Affairs Mecklenburg-Vorpommern.

- These priorities must be underpinned in the medium term in close cooperation with the Ministry of Labour, Gender Equality and Social Affairs of Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania. Health authorities and hospitals must be involved in and actively involved in security planning.

- Health authorities and hospitals must be involved in and actively involved in security planning.Financial impact The active involvement of hospitals in civil protection is already enshrined in law.

- Financial impact The active involvement of hospitals in civil protection is already enshrined in the law. Whether new and additional retention costs arise from the above-mentioned priorities and how they can be financed should be examined in the further procedure.

- 26 Ministry of the Interior and Sport Mecklenburg-Vorpommern Unit II 450

