# 5.9

- Preparing the population for the new challenges/self-help capacity of the population State of play In particular, the experience of the Elbe flood of summer 2013 shows very clearly the importance of an enlightened, self-help and willing population for the functioning of the entire aid system and for the prevention of high economic damage. This commitment must continue to be strongly supported by awareness-raising measures on the one hand and by technical training measures on the other.

- This commitment must continue to be strongly supported by awareness-raising measures on the one hand and by technical training measures on the other hand. Self-help includes all measures of the population which are suitable to mitigate, mitigate or eliminate the damage, in particular to life and health, vital facilities and goods, which are likely to occur in their narrower living and working areas in an event.

- Self-help includes all measures of the population which are capable of mitigating or eradicating the damage or damage that may occur in their narrower living and working areas in an event, in particular in terms of life and health, vital facilities and goods. This means all measures which are to be taken by individuals and the community on a voluntary basis on their own initiative against these risks.

- This means that all measures which the individual and the community are intended to provide on a voluntary basis against these dangers on their own initiative. In order to support the self-protection placed into the free responsibility of the citizen, official promotion and supplementary measures are provided for, the construction, promotion and management of which are subject to the municipalities according to § 5 Civil Protection and Disaster Assistance Act (ZSKG).

- In order to support the self-protection given to the free responsibility of the citizen, official funding and supplementary measures are provided for, the construction, promotion and management of which in accordance with § 5 Civil Protection and Disaster Relief Act (ZSKG) are the responsibility of the municipalities. The federal government supports these measures in accordance with § 5 ZSKG.

- The federal government supports these measures in accordance with § 5 ZSKG. This system could not be implemented satisfactorily in the past.

- This system has not been implemented satisfactorily in the past, which is why new impulses and approaches are needed.

- This is why new impulses and approaches are needed here. Concept To master the new risks, the state must use its resources in new environments or adapt them to the new challenges.

- Concept In order to manage the new risks, the state must use its resources in new environments or adapt them to the new challenges. Security policy, which should serve the population, must therefore not only count on their support - it must also involve them more strongly than before.

- Security policy, which should serve the population, must therefore not only be able to count on its support - it must also involve it more strongly than before. A population that is not prepared for risks will also not be able to make its own contribution to risk reduction or damage management.

- A population that is not prepared for risks will not be able to make its own contribution to risk reduction or damage management. Therefore, the following questions will have to be examined in the coming years: - What preventive protective measures and capabilities are required for large-scale and long-term events to mitigate damage?

- For this reason, the following questions will have to be examined in the coming years: - What preventive protective measures and capabilities are required in case of large-scale and long-term events to limit damage? - How can the self-help capacity of the population be strengthened?

- - How can the self-help capacity of the population be strengthened? - Can an awareness of the importance of self-help be created?

- - Can an awareness of the importance of self-help be created? - How much preparedness is required and what risks must be communicated to the population as acceptable?

- - How much preparedness is required and what risks must be communicated to the population as acceptable? 27 Ministry of the Interior and Sports Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania Unit II 450 - Do adequate protective measures and equipment exist for the population in the event of a large-scale threat, in particular an epidemic, pandemic or radiological threat?

- 27 Ministry of the Interior and Sports Mecklenburg-Vorpommern Unit II 450 - Do adequate protective measures and equipment exist for the population in the event of a large-scale threat, in particular an epidemic, pandemic or radiological threat? - How are the concerns of disabled people taken into account?

- - How are the needs of disabled people taken into account? In the area of mobilising the self-help potential of the population, a motivation gap and a self-protection gap can still be identified.

- In the field of mobilising the potential for self-help in the population, there is still a motivation gap and a self-protection gap. State measures will only lead to an improvement in the current situation if they are socially accepted.

- State measures will only lead to an improvement of the current situation if they are socially accepted. Thus, modern instruments for the recruitment of helpers, such as the school medical service (SSD), could be observed and contribute to the increase of the self-help capacity of the population.

- Modern tools for helping people, such as the school medical service (SSD), could be taken into account and could contribute to increasing the self-help capacity of the population. The decline in civic commitment is a structural problem.

- The decline in civic commitment is a structural problem. A solution to the problem requires a permanent dialogue with all social groups on all relevant issues, which can encourage private households to invest in self-protection.

- A solution to the problem requires a permanent dialogue with all social groups on all relevant issues, which can encourage private households to invest in self-protection, which requires active information from society about risks and pension options and public opinion.

- This requires active information from society about risks and pension options and public opinion gained.Financial impact The financial need for this is not yet predictable.

- Financial impact The financial needs for this are not yet estimated.

