# 5.13.2 Übungen

- State of play Exercises are an essential part of the entire training process. They are considered to be the completion of a training phase and must therefore be fully integrated into the training planning in order to implement concepts and organisational structures in practice and to check their effectiveness and appropriateness.

- They are considered to be the completion of a training phase and must therefore be fully integrated into the training planning in order to implement concepts and organisational structures in practice and to verify their effectiveness and appropriateness. They are therefore essential for modern, effective and efficient civil protection.

- They are therefore essential for a modern, effective and efficient civil protection. The civil protection authorities are obliged to carry out corresponding exercises in accordance with § 14 of the Mecklenburg-Vorpommern Civil Disaster Protection Act.

- The civil protection authorities are obliged to carry out corresponding exercises in accordance with § 14 Landeskastroastenschutzgesetz Mecklenburg-Vorpommern. This is based on district and regional hazard priorities at the respective administrative level.

- This is based on district and regional hazard priorities at the respective administrative level. Every year, district and country exercises with changing focus topics such as the mass attack of affected persons (MANB), animal diseases, damage situations in incident plants, failure of critical infrastructures (KRITIS), hazardous material accidents and natural disasters in different intensity and organizational form are carried out.

- Every year, circular and country exercises with changing focus topics such as the mass attack of affected persons (MANB), animal diseases, damage situations in accident plants, failure of critical infrastructures (KRITIS), hazardous material accidents and natural disasters are carried out in different intensity and organizational form.

- In the future, regular exercises will have to be continued. In addition, cross-state crisis management exercises have been taking place since 2004.

- In addition, Federal cross-country crisis management exercises have been taking place since 2004. LÜKEX is the name for a series of exercises in the field of national crisis management in Germany.

- LÜKEX is the name for a series of exercises in the field of national crisis management in Germany. In the Federal Republic of Germany, six LÜKEX exercises for the crisis staff of the Federal Government and the crisis staff of the state governments have been held so far.

- In the Federal Republic of Germany, six LÜKEX exercises have so far taken place for the Federal Government's crisis staff as well as the crisis staff of the state governments. The following scenarios were used and simulated in their overall social effects: "Winter extreme weather conditions with large-scale power failure", "Terrorist attacks in connection with the 2006 World Cup, "Worldwide Influenza Pandemic", "Smug bomb", "Threat of the security of information technology through massive cyber attacks" and "Extraordinary biological threats."

- The following scenarios were used and simulated in their societal impact: "Winter extreme weather conditions with large-scale power failure", "Terrorist attacks in connection with the 2006 World Cup, "Worldwide Influenza Pandemic", "Miscellaneous Bomb", "Threat of the security of information technology through massive cyber attacks", and "Exceptional biological threats". Initial planning for the LÜKEX 15 exercise is based on a scenario to manage a storm flood in the North Sea.

- Initial planning for the LÜKEX 15 exercise is based on a scenario to manage a storm flood in the North Sea. Concept To maintain and further develop the efficient interaction of bars of all levels, a coordinated exercise planning is required.

- Concept In order to maintain and further develop the efficient interaction of bars at all levels, coordinated exercise planning is required.The resources at federal, state and county level need to be more balanced and supplemented, as participation in any exercise activities is not always necessary and feasible.

- The resources at the federal, state and district level must be more balanced and supplemented, as participation in any exercise activities is not always necessary and feasible. In the medium term, on the basis of a general exercise concept Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania and taking into account various exercise series (such as LÜKEX or ARCHE) as well as the inclusion of all required persons, the basis for an administrative level of comprehensive planning and implementation of exercises must be created.

- In the medium term, on the basis of a general practice concept of Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania and taking into account various exercise series (such as LÜKEX or ARCHE) as well as the inclusion of all required persons, the aim is to create foundations for an administrative level of comprehensive planning and implementation of exercises. The aim is to sustainably shape the practice culture in the areas of the strategic 41 Ministry of Interior and Sports Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania Unit II 450 crisis management, administrative civil protection and operational security.

- The aim is to make the practice culture sustainable in the areas of the strategic 41 Ministry of Home Affairs and Sports Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania Unit II 450 crisis management, administrative civil protection and operational security. Financial impact In Chapter 0405, 23,000 euros in 2015 as well as 13,000 euros in 2016 and 2017 and 23,000 euros in 2018 are estimated for exercises.

