# 6.

- Summary/Conclusion Civil protection is not only a state task, but also a responsibility for the economy, especially when it operates critical infrastructures. Moreover, every citizen bears responsibility – whether as a will and capacity for self-help or as a help for others.

- In addition, every citizen bears responsibility – whether as a will and capacity for self-help or as a help for others. This requires a change in the handling of danger and risk.

- This requires a changing approach to risk and risk. A "human resource management" is necessary, which sees citizens as potential and partners.

- A "human resources management" is necessary, which sees the citizens as potential and partners. Only when a common understanding of collective security arises will the population be willing to contribute and accept restrictions in the event of an emergency.

- Only when a common understanding of collective security arises will the population be willing to contribute and accept restrictions in the event of an emergency. Security without material and intangible costs is impossible.

- Security without material and intangible costs is impossible. The complexity of our society cannot be reduced, but the inherent security of networked critical systems can be increased by identifying and protecting critical elements and building a necessary level of redundancy.

- The complexity of our society cannot be reduced, but the inherent security of networked critical systems can be increased by identifying and protecting critical elements and building up a necessary level of redundancy. In the implementation of the civil protection concept, the concerns and life as well as the physical, mental and mental condition of disabled people before and in disaster cases should be taken into account.

- In the implementation of the civil protection concept, the concerns and life as well as the physical, mental and mental condition of disabled people before and in disaster cases are to be taken into account. Especially in the warning of the population, the person information points in large damage situations and disasters as well as in the risk and crisis communication the barrier-free access to the corresponding information sources, especially for people with visual and hearing disabilities, should be taken into consideration.

- In particular, in the warning of the population, the person information points in large damage situations and disasters, as well as in risk and crisis communication, the barrier-free access to the corresponding information sources, especially for people with visual and hearing disabilities, should be taken into consideration. 43 Ministry of the Interior and Sports Mecklenburg-Vorpommern Unit II 450 In the field of mobilising the self-help potential in the population, a motivation gap and a self-help gap can still be identified.

- 43 Ministry of the Interior and Sport Mecklenburg-Vorpommern Unit II 450 In the field of mobilising the self-help potential of the population, a motivation gap and a self-help gap are still to be identified. State measures will only lead to an improvement of the current situation if they are socially accepted.

- State measures will only lead to an improvement in the current situation if they are socially accepted. A solution to the problem requires a permanent dialogue with all social groups on all relevant issues, which can encourage private households to invest in self-protection.

- A solution to the problem requires a permanent dialogue with all social groups on all relevant issues, which can encourage private households to invest in self-protection, which requires active information from society about risks and pension options and public opinion.

- This requires active information from society on risks and pension options and public opinion. Critical infrastructure includes, among other things, energy supply, chemical installations, electronic communications systems, water supply, public buildings, transport and resource systems and the financial system.

- The area of critical infrastructure includes energy supply, chemical installations, electronic communications systems, water supply, public buildings, transport and resource systems and the financial system, which are central to the supply of the population.

- These are of central importance for the supply of the population. A failure of these structures or individual parts of them could lead to far-reaching consequences for both individual citizens and society.

- Failure of these structures or individual parts of them could lead to far-reaching consequences for individual citizens as well as for society. Examples include shortages of raw materials, bottlenecks in energy supply, refugee problems or economic losses.

- For example, shortages of raw materials, shortages in energy supply, refugee problems or economic losses are to be mentioned. In severe emergencies, there is also a prospect of spreading legal uncertainty – to mention only corruption and property offences, for whose dangerous infrastructural consequences there would also be preparedness.

- In serious emergencies, there is also a prospect of a widespread lack of legal concern – to mention only corruption and property offences, for whose dangerous infrastructural consequences it would also be necessary to take precautions. This must be prevented by appropriate preventive measures.

- This must be prevented by appropriate preventive measures. In the field of warning and continuous information to the population and civil protection and disaster relief organisations, the lack of a generally accepted approach with robust replacement capacity remains the core problem.

- In the field of warning and continuous information to the population and civil protection and disaster relief organisations, the lack of a generally accepted concept with robust replacement capacity remains the core problem. Warning is wake-up and information.

- Warning means wake and inform. Warning about radio and television are modules of such an overall concept; however, they can only partially cover the task of warning.

- Warnings about broadcasting and television are modules of such an overall concept, but they can only partially cover the task of warning. In this area, too, the question of wake-up effect and the safe and robust communication of security units, which limits security efficiency, is still unsatisfactory.

- In this area, too, the question of the wake-up effect and the safe and robust communication of security units, which continues to be only unsatisfactoryly resolved, is a matter for action.

- In the medical, pharmaceutical and psychosocial fields of care and aftercare, the implementation of the concept for the establishment and operation of the three Medical Task Forces, which has already been accepted and started in practice by the DRC, is to be carried out as a matter of priority.

- In the medical, pharmaceutical and psychosocial fields of care and aftercare, the implementation of the concept for the establishment and operation of the three medical task forces, which has already been accepted and started by the DRC in practice, must be carried out as a matter of priority. Likewise, a long-term strategy for the training and further training of doctors in particular, as well as the quality assurance of psychosocial service providers, must be developed and implemented.

- It is also necessary to develop and implement a long-term strategy for the education and training of doctors in particular, but also for the quality assurance of psychosocial service providers. In the area of the management structure at national level, the in-house networking of the spatially separated areas (administrative staff and team) must be implemented in accordance with the newly created staff service regulations.

- In the area of the management structure at the state level, the internal networking of the spatially separated areas (administrative staff and team) must be implemented according to the newly created staff service regulations. The technical equipment for web meetings or the video transmission of 44 Ministry of Interior and Sports Mecklenburg-Vorpommern Unit II 450 meetings should be possible.

- The technical equipment for web meetings or the video transmission of 44 Ministry of the Interior and Sports Mecklenburg-Vorpommern Unit II 450 meetings should be possible. The same applies to communication with the other civil protection authorities.

- The same applies to communication with the other civil protection authorities. In the years 1991 to 2010 for the civil protection in Mecklenburg-Vorpommern for the procurement of technology state funds in the amount of

