# 7.

- Arrangements for remedial action outside the premises, arrangements for informing the public about the accident and the correct conduct, arrangements for informing the forces of foreign countries in the event of a serious accident with possible cross-border consequences. (4) The draft external emergency plans shall be publicly interpreted by the local disaster protection authorities in the area of risk of the establishment for consultation with the public for a period of one month.

- 4. The draft external contingency plans shall be publicly interpreted by the local disaster protection authorities in the area of risk of the establishment for consultation with the public for a period of one month; the parts of the external contingency plans in need of secrecy, in particular the external contingency plans, in particular personal information subject to data protection, covert telephone numbers or internal instructions, shall be excluded.

- The parts of the external contingency plans, in particular the external contingency plans, in particular personal information subject to data protection, covert telephone numbers or internal instructions, which need to be kept secret, shall be excluded. Place and duration of the interpretation shall be made known at least one week prior to the location, indicating that suggestions may be made during the period of interpretation.

- The place and duration of the interpretation shall be made known locally at least one week before the date of such interpretation, indicating that suggestions may be made during the period of interpretation; the suggestions submitted in due time shall be examined; the result shall be communicated.

- If more than 50 persons have submitted suggestions with essentially the same content, the communication of the result of the examination may be replaced by the provision of access to the result; the place where the result can be viewed during the hours of service must be made known locally.

- If more than 50 persons have submitted suggestions with substantially the same content, the communication of the result of the examination may be replaced by the provision of access to the result to these persons; the post where the result can be viewed during hours of service must be made known locally; if the draft external emergency plan is amended or supplemented in accordance with the interpretation, it must be reinterpreted; the reinterpretation may stipulate that suggestions can only be made in respect of the amended or supplemented parts.

- If the draft of the external contingency plan is amended or supplemented after its interpretation, it shall be re-examined; if the re-explanation provides that suggestions can only be made on the amended or supplemented parts; if the modification or addition of the draft does not affect the broad lines of the planning, or if amendments or additions are of minor or minor importance, a new public interpretation may be waived.

- If the modification or addition of the draft does not affect the broad lines of the planning, or if amendments or additions are minor or minor, a new public interpretation may be waived. (5) The local disaster protection authorities shall review, test and, if necessary, revise and update the contingency plans they have drawn up at appropriate intervals of not more than three years with the participation of the operator and taking into account the internal emergency plan.

- 5. The local disaster protection authorities shall review, test and update the contingency plans they have drawn up at appropriate intervals of not more than three years, with the participation of the operator and taking into account the internal contingency plan; this review shall take into account changes in establishments and emergency services, new technical knowledge and knowledge of how to act in the event of major accidents.

- This review shall take into account changes in the operations and emergency services, new technical findings and findings on how to act in the event of major accidents.Excluding page 7 of 13 § 8 Obligation to provide information The owners and owners of land and installations from which disaster hazards may arise shall be obliged to the Civil Protection Authority to provide information necessary for the preparation of disaster response.

- out of force Page 7 of 13 § 8 Obligation to provide information The owners and owners of land and installations from which disaster hazards can arise are obliged to the Civil Protection Authority to provide information necessary for the preparation of disaster response. § 9 Tasks of the Civil Protection Authorities In the event of disasters, the civil protection authorities shall take the measures necessary for disaster response according to their discretion in accordance with the applicable laws.

- § 9 Tasks of the Civil Protection Authorities In the case of disasters, the civil protection authorities take the necessary measures for the disaster response according to their discretion. The respective civil protection management manages and coordinates the disaster response on behalf of the civil protection authority.

- The respective civil protection management manages and coordinates the disaster response on behalf of the civil protection authority. § 10 Local civil protection assistance (1) The provisions on mutual assistance under the Bremen Administrative Procedure Act apply to the local civil protection assistance.

- § 10 Local Civil Protection Assistance (1) The provisions on mutual assistance under the Bremen Administrative Procedures Act apply to local civil protection assistance. (2) The municipalities of Bremen and Bremerhaven provide civil protection assistance free of charge to each other.

- (2) The municipalities of Bremen and Bremerhaven provide civil protection assistance to each other free of charge. § 11 Compliance with eviction, security and shut-off measures In the event of a disaster or in the event of imminent danger of a disaster, everyone is obliged to follow the eviction, security and shut-off measures ordered in order to enable the emergency forces to operate freely at the site of damage or to ward off dangers arising from the site of operation.

- § 11 Compliance with eviction, security and containment measures In the event of a disaster or imminent danger of a catastrophe, everyone is obliged to follow the ordered eviction, security and containment measures in order to enable the operational forces to operate freely at the site of damage or to ward off dangers arising from the site of operation. § 12 Personal assistance (1) Each person is obliged to provide assistance in disaster response if the existing forces are not sufficient and he is asked to do so by the civil protection authority or by the local operational management.

- § 12 Personal assistance (1) Everyone is obliged to provide assistance in disaster response if the existing forces are not sufficient and if they are asked to do so by the Civil Protection Authority or by the local operational management. (2) The assistance can only refuse who would be seriously endangered by it or would have to violate higher-quality obligations.

- (2) Assistance can only be refused by those who would be seriously threatened by it or who would have to violate higher-quality obligations. (3) Persons who are subsequently used to provide assistance or who voluntarily participate in disaster response with the consent of the Civil Protection Authority, without effect on page 8 of 13

