# 1.

- 2. have for the duration of the assistance the legal status of a helper. § 15 para. 2, §§ 16 to 18 shall apply mutatis mutandis.

- § 15 para. 2, §§ 16 to 18 shall apply mutatis mutandis. § 13 Other benefits (1) The Civil Protection Authority may request necessary services in the scope of § 2 of the Federal Service Act.

- § 13 Other benefits (1) The Civil Protection Authority may request necessary services to combat disasters within the scope of § 2 of the Federal Performance Act. The benefits may only be requested if the need cannot be covered in another way or can not be covered in time or only with disproportionate resources.

- The benefits may only be requested if the need cannot be covered in another way or can not be covered in time or only by disproportionate means. The persons designated in Section 9 (1) of the Federal Performance Act are liable to benefit.

- The persons referred to in Section 9 (1) of the Federal Service Act are liable to benefits. (2) Paragraph 1 also applies if a civil protection authority has to avail itself of services in its district within the framework of the neighbourhood assistance or the extra-local assistance.

- (2) Paragraph 1 also applies if a civil protection authority has to avail itself of services in its district within the framework of the neighbourhood assistance or the extra-local assistance. (3) §§ 11 to 14 of the Federal Service Act applies accordingly to the legal effects of a performance requirement.

- (3) The legal effects of a performance requirement are subject to §§ 11 to 14 of the Federal Performance Act. § 14 Compensation (1) The requesting civil protection authority must compensate the person who has suffered a loss of property in money on his application for services pursuant to § 13.

- § 14 Compensation (1) The requesting civil protection authority has to compensate the person who has suffered a loss of property in cash for the use of services pursuant to § 13. A claim for compensation does not exist insofar as the person concerned or his or her property should be protected or if he or she can otherwise be expected to bear the disadvantage itself.

- In so far as the person concerned or his or her property should be protected or if he or she can otherwise be expected to bear the disadvantage himself or herself, there is no claim to compensation. §§ 20 to 23, 25, 26, 28 to 32 and 34 of the Federal Performance Act apply mutatis mutandis for the assessment and payment of compensation.

- §§ 20 to 23, 25, 26, 28 to 32 and 34 of the Federal Performance Act apply accordingly for the calculation and payment of compensation. (2) The compensation is determined by decision or agreed by public contract.

- (2) Compensation shall be determined by a communication or agreed by a public contract. An appeal decision issued during the fixed procedure may be brought before the Landgericht within a period of two months of its service.

- An appeal decision issued during the fixed procedure may be brought before the Landgericht within a period of two months after its service. Furthermore, Section 58 (3) and (4) of the Federal Performance Act applies mutatis mutandis.

- Paragraphs 1 and 2 shall apply mutatis mutandis if a third party voluntarily provides services within the meaning of this provision, which were necessary for the support of the measures of the Civil Protection Authority in the event of a disaster, without being used in accordance with § 13 above, without effecting page 9 of 13 by means of disaster response measures, which he is not responsible for, is killed or injured or suffers a reasonably unacceptable damage.

- (3) Paragraphs 1 and 2 shall apply mutatis mutandis if a third party, without being used in accordance with § 13, voluntarily provides services within the meaning of this provision, which were necessary in the event of a disaster in support of the measures of the Civil Protection Authority, is killed or injured, or suffers reasonably unreasonable damage, in the event of a disaster, without effect of page 9 of 13. Section 15 Helpers in civil protection (1) Helpers in civil protection are women and men who voluntarily and voluntarily participate in the units and facilities of civil protection.

- § 15 Helpers in civil protection (1) Helpers in civil protection are women and men who voluntarily and voluntarily participate in the units and facilities of civil protection. They commit themselves to the carrier of the unit or institution for a certain or indefinite period of service in civil protection, provided that their duty of participation does not already exist because of their membership in the institution.

- They shall undertake to the institution of the unit or institution to serve civil protection for a specified or indefinite period of time, provided that their obligation to cooperate does not already exist on the basis of their membership in the institution. (2) The civil protection service shall include, in particular, the obligation to participate in the fight against disasters, as well as in civil protection exercises and training events outside the respective municipality or the State of Bremen.

- (2) The Civil Protection Service shall include, in particular, the obligation to participate in the fight against disasters and in civil protection exercises and training events outside the municipality or the State of Bremen. (3) Workers shall not suffer from their obligation to serve civil protection and from that service any disadvantages in the employment relationship and in social and unemployment insurance and occupational pension schemes.

- 3. Workers may not suffer from their obligation to serve in civil protection or from that service any disadvantages in the employment relationship, social security, unemployment insurance and occupational pensions. Employees in this sense are employees and workers and those employed for their training.

- Workers in this sense are employees, manual workers and those employed for their training. The protection provided for in the first sentence shall apply mutatis mutandis to officials and judges.

- The protection provision of sentence 1 shall apply mutatis mutandis to civil servants and judges. § 16 Legal relations of the helpers (1) Unless otherwise provided by this law or law of the Federation, the rights and obligations of the helpers shall apply only to the carrier of the unit or institution to which they belong.

- § 16 Legal relations of the helpers (1) Unless otherwise provided by this law or legislation of the Federation, the rights and obligations of the helpers only exist in relation to the institution or body to which they belong. Unless they are regulated by law, the legal relations are governed by the statutes or other regulations of the supporter.

- Insofar as they are not regulated by law, the legal relationships are governed by the statutes or other provisions of the institution. In the absence of such regulations or if the legal relations are not finally governed by regulations of the institution, the institution shall apply the regulations for the members of the volunteer fire brigades accordingly.

- In the absence of such provisions or where the legal relationships are not fully governed by the provisions of the institution, the institution shall apply the provisions for the members of the volunteer fire brigades accordingly. (2) The local disaster protection authority may require a carrier to give birth to a helper in the event of an important reason.

- (2) The Local Disaster Protection Authority may require a supporter to give birth to a supporter in the event of an important reason. An important reason is in particular the fact that the supporter repeatedly violates his duties, if his obligations are no longer demonstrated by the supporter, or if his ability to provide assistance in the field of civil protection no longer exists.

- There is an important reason, in particular, if the helper repeatedly violates his duties, if sufficient participation and availability of his obligations can no longer be demonstrated by the carrier, except in force on page 10 of 13 or if his suitability for assistance in civil protection is no longer given. (3) Appointment and dismissal of managers in the functions of train drivers and standby guides or in equivalent functions by the private institutions require confirmation by the local disaster protection authority.

- (3) Appointment and dismissal of managers in the functions of train drivers and standby guides or in equivalent functions by the private institutions require confirmation by the local disaster protection authority. For important reasons, the local disaster protection authority may require the dismissal of a manager.

- For important reasons, the Local Disaster Protection Authority may require the dismissal of a manager. The Local Disaster Protection Authority may regulate the procedure by decree.

- The local disaster protection authority may regulate the procedure by decree. § 17 Compensation of the helpers; granting of benefits; reimbursements (1) If helpers take part in officially ordered or approved operations, exercises or training events, they shall be compensated in accordance with the regulations of their institutions, but at the most in accordance with the guidelines of the municipalities.

- § 17 Compensation of the helpers; granting of benefits; reimbursements (1) If helpers take part in officially ordered or approved operations, exercises or training events, they shall be compensated in accordance with the regulations of their institutions, but at the most in accordance with the guidelines of the municipalities. (2) The compensations referred to in paragraph 1 shall be reimbursed to the institutions of the units and facilities upon request by the Civil Protection Authority, which has ordered or approved the operation, exercises or training events.

- (2) The compensation referred to in paragraph 1 shall be reimbursed to the institutions of the units and facilities on request by the Civil Protection Authority, which has ordered or approved the use, exercises or training events. The provisions for exemption from work performance, further payment of wages and compensation for loss of earnings incurred in Section 17(2) of the Bremischer Fire Protection Act shall apply mutatis mutandis to the civil protection service.

- The regulations for the exemption from work performance, further payment of wages and compensation for loss of earnings arising in § 17 para. 2 of the Bremischer Fire Protection Act apply correspondingly for the service in civil protection. § 18 Liability of the helpers (1) Liability for damages which a helper inflicts in the performance of his service in the fight against disasters or in the case of civil protection exercises or training events to a third party and the admissibility of the recourse against the helper is determined in accordance with § 839 of the Civil Code and Article 34 of the Basic Law.

- § 18 Liability of the helpers (1) The liability for damages incurred by a helper in the performance of his/her service in the fight against disasters or in the case of civil protection exercises or training courses is determined by § 839 of the Civil Code and Article 34 of the Basic Law. In the case of an obligation to a public institution of this body, the civil protection authority of which has established the special suitability of the unit or institution.

- Liability within the meaning of Article 34 of the Basic Law shall only be liable for damage caused to a public institution of the latter, and, moreover, to the body whose civil protection authority has established the special suitability of the unit or institution. (2) The helpers shall be liable for damage which they cause in the performance of their service in the fight against disasters or in the case of civil protection exercises or training courses on the property of the public authorities, only in the event of intent and gross negligence.

- (2) The helpers shall be liable for any damage they cause to the property of the public authorities in the performance of their service in the fight against disasters or in the case of civil protection exercises or training events, only in the case of intent and gross negligence. (3) The obligation to compensate pursuant to paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply, as far as the helper has acted on instructions.

- (3) The obligation to compensate pursuant to paragraphs 1 and 2 does not exist in so far as the helper acted on instructions. except for page 11 of 13 (4) The provisions on the liability regime of the Bremen Civil Service Act apply mutatis mutandis to the limitation of claims against the helper and the transfer of compensation claims to him.

- out of force Page 11 of 13 (4) For the limitation of the claims against the helper and the transfer of compensation claims to him, the provisions on the liability regulations of the Bremischer Beschäftsverwaltungsgesetz apply accordingly. (5) In the case of bodily damage caused by a helper to another helper, the liability limitation of Section 106 (3) of the Seventh Book of the Social Code applies.

- (5) In the case of bodily damage caused by a helper to another helper, the liability limitation of Section 106 (3) of the Seventh Book of the Social Code applies. § 19 Chargers (1) The Free Hanseatic City of Bremen and the municipalities each bear the costs incurred by them in carrying out their duties.

- § 19 Chargers (1) The Free Hanseatic City of Bremen and the Municipal Communities each bear the costs incurred in carrying out their tasks. (2) The Municipal Communities grant funds to the Civil Protection Units and Facilities according to their budgets.

- 2. Municipal authorities shall grant assistance to civil protection units and bodies in accordance with their budgets. They shall, upon request, reimburse the institutions for the costs incurred by the official or authorised operation in the event of disasters or civil protection exercises.

- They shall, upon request, reimburse the institutions for the costs incurred by the official or approved operation in the event of disasters or civil protection exercises. (3) An agreement shall be concluded between the municipalities of Bremen and Bremerhaven on the costs incurred in the implementation of the law in the Bremen Overseas Port Region of Bremerhaven.

- (3) An agreement shall be concluded between the municipalities of Bremen and Bremerhaven on the costs incurred in implementing the law in the Bremen Overseas Port Region of Bremerhaven. (4) The costs to be borne or reimbursed by the federal government shall be covered by the Civil Protection Act.

- (4) The cost regulation of the Civil Protection Act applies to the costs to be borne or reimbursed by the Federal Government. § 20 Cost replacement (1) Disaster operations are free of charge.

- § 20 Cost replacement (1) Disaster interventions are free of charge. Claims for compensation of expenses according to general regulations in case of intentional or grossly negligent cause of danger or damage and against causers in cases of risk liability remain unaffected.

- Claims for compensation of expenses according to general regulations in case of intentional or grossly negligent cause of danger or damage and against causers in cases of risk liability remain unaffected. (2) § 10.

- § 10. (3) If equipment owned by the Free Hanseatic City of Bremen or the municipalities of Bremen or the municipalities of Bremen is used by the institutions of the units and facilities of civil protection, costs shall be reimbursed for repairs, replacement, loss and operation.

- (3) Where equipment owned by the Free Hanseatic City of Bremen or the municipalities of Bremen is used by the institutions of the units and facilities of civil protection, reimbursement of costs shall be required for repairs, replacement, loss and operation. The replacement for wear and tear may be waived for reasons of equity.

- The replacement for wear and tear may be waived for reasons of equity. The Free Hanseatic City of Bremen and the municipalities of Bremen are to be indemnified from all claims of third parties.

- The Free Hanseatic City of Bremen and the Municipal Communities shall be indemnified from all claims of third parties. (4) Without prejudice to paragraph 1, the operators of installations pursuant to § 7a shall be obliged to waive the power of the Land and the Municipal Communities page 12 of 13

