# 2.

- 3. to reimburse the costs arising from the control of dangerous releases from its installation and the provisional elimination of the resulting damage, to provide the necessary resources for the procurement, installation, testing of operational readiness, maintenance and replacement of technical equipment and equipment intended to protect in particular against the effects of dangerous releases from its installation, and to reimburse the costs of exercises relating to possible accidents in its installation; the resources and costs referred to in the first sentence shall be determined by the administrative act of the Civil Protection Authority.

- The funds and costs referred to in the first sentence are determined by the administrative act of the Civil Protection Authority. § 21 Non-compliance (1) Non-compliance with the provisions of § 8, who does not, not correctly, not completely or not in time, does not, not fully or not in time, comply with his obligation to provide personal assistance pursuant to § 12 (1) or to other services pursuant to § 14 (1) and (2), not in full or not in time.

- § 21 Infringements of order (1) Infringements of order do not act in accordance with § 8, not correctly, not completely or not in good time, not in accordance with § 11 (1), not in full or not in good time, does not comply with its obligation to provide personal assistance pursuant to § 12 (1) or to other services pursuant to § 14 (1) and (2), not in full or not in good time. (2) Infringement of order can be punished with a fine of up to 5000 euros.

- (2) Infringement of the law may be punishable by a fine of up to EUR 5000. (3) The competent administrative authority responsible for the prosecution and prosecution of irregularities is the local police authority concerned.

- (3) The competent administrative authority responsible for the prosecution and prosecution of irregularities is the local police authority concerned. out of force Page 13 of 13 § 22 Relationship with other legislation The special legislation on security and the legislation of the institutions of the units and institutions involved in civil protection remain unaffected.

- without effect Page 13 of 13 § 22 Relationship with other legislation The special legislation on security and the legislation of the institutions of the units and institutions involved in civil protection remain unaffected. § 23 Restriction of fundamental rights The fundamental rights to physical integrity (Article 2 para. 2 sentence 1 of the Basic Law), freedom of the person (Article 2 para. 2 sentence 2 of the Basic Law), freedom of movement (Article 11 of the Basic Law), inviolability of housing (Article 13 of the Basic Law) and inviolability of property (Article 14 of the Basic Law) are restricted in accordance with this Act.

- § 23 Restriction of fundamental rights The fundamental rights to physical integrity (Article 2 para. 2 sentence 1 of the Basic Law), freedom of persons (Article 2 para. 2 sentence 2 of the Basic Law), freedom of movement (Article 11 of the Basic Law), inviolability of housing (Article 13 of the Basic Law) and inviolability of property (Article 14 of the Basic Law) are restricted in accordance with this Law. § 24 Implementing Provisions The Senator for Home Affairs, Culture and Sports may adopt general administrative provisions for the implementation of this Law.

- § 24 Implementing Provisions The Senator for Home Affairs, Culture and Sports may adopt general administrative provisions for the implementation of this Act. § 25 Entry into force This Act shall enter into force on the day following its announcement.

- § 25 Entry into force This law enters into force on the day following its announcement. Bremen, 17 September 1979 The Senate ceases to apply

