# 2. Auflage 2024

- 3 Content Imprint 的 2 Foreword by the President of the Landesfeuerwehrverband Niedersachsen-based German Federal Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Consumer Protection (Niedersächsächsische Minister für Lebensmittel, Landwirtschaft und Verbraucherschutz)

- Over the many years it has developed concepts for the education and education of fire protection, which serve to educate the population from children to seniors. In the Lower Saxony fire brigades there are currently over 2,500 trained fire protection teachers.

- In the Lower Saxony fire brigades there are currently more than 2,500 trained fire safety educators. They are almost exclusively on their way to inform about the correct behaviour in the event of a fire and to inform about fire hazards.

- They are almost exclusively volunteers to inform about the right behaviour in the event of a fire and to inform about fire hazards. Due to the ever-increasing forest and vegetation fires in recent years, which pose a danger to humans and nature, the following recommendation for action is now intended to complement the already existing modules in fire protection education and fire protection education and to address the topic of "fire and other emergencies in the forest and nature".

- With the ever-increasing forest and vegetation fires in recent years, which pose a danger to people and nature, the following recommendation for action is now intended to complement the already existing modules in fire protection education and fire protection education and to address the topic "fire and other emergencies in the forest and nature". The aim is to reduce accidents and fires with the new materials and information in order to protect the habitat forest for humans and animals and to reduce the use of fire brigades and other aid organisations.

- The aim is to reduce accidents and fires with the new materials and information in order to protect the habitat forest for humans and animals and to reduce the use of fire brigades and other aid organisations. We as the Landesfeuerwehrverband Niedersachsen are pleased to have found a supporter of our preventive investigation work around the topic „Waldbrand" with the Lower Saxony Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Consumer Protection.

- We, the Landesfeuerwehrverband Niedersachsen, are pleased with the Lower Saxony Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Consumer Protection to have found a supporter of our preventive investigation work around the topic „Waldbrand". Olaf Kapke President Landesfeuerwehrverband Niedersachen 5 Preface of the Lower Saxony Minister for Food, Agriculture and Consumer Protection Dear reader, dear readers, dear forest lovers, vegetation fires unfortunately play an increasingly important role in the tasks of the fire brigades.

- Olaf Kapke President Landesfeuerwehrverband Niedersachen 5 Preface of the Lower Saxony Minister for Food, Agriculture and Consumer Protection Dear reader, dear readers, dear forest enthusiasts, vegetation fires unfortunately play an increasingly important role in the tasks of the fire brigades. Many thanks here to all the volunteers in the fire brigades.

- Many thanks at this point to all the volunteers in the fire brigades. They do an irreplaceable service to the general public!

- They provide an irreplaceable service to the general public! The forest is climate protection and CO2 storage, we need the ecosystem services of the forest and the renewable raw material wood.

- The forest is climate protection and CO2 storage, we need the ecosystem services of the forest and the renewable raw material wood. The forest is a habitat for flora and fauna, and a place of recreation for us humans.

- The forest is a habitat for flora and fauna, and a place of recreation for us humans. The climate crisis with dry summers increases the risk of forest fire.

- The climate crisis with dry summers increases the risk of forest fire. We have to expect that the situation in the future will worsen and the forest fire season will be longer for us as well.

- We have to expect that the situation will get worse in the future and that the forest fire season will be longer for us too. Unfortunately, most of the forest fires are man-made, also due to negligence.

- Unfortunately, much of the forest fires are man-made, even out of negligence. An careless cigarette dump can have devastating consequences in the forest.

- A cigarette tip thrown away carelessly can have devastating consequences in the forest. Under the motto "What to do against fire in the forest?" we, as the Ministry of Forests, together with the Lower Saxony Fire Brigade Association, have launched the "Elucidation campaign for forest fire."

- Under the motto "What to do against fire in the forest?" we, as the Ministry of Forests, together with the Lower Saxony Fire Brigade Association, have launched the "Forest Fire Enlightenment Campaign". Thanks to all who have contributed to this.

- Thanks to all who have contributed to this. With this recommendation we want to convey the knowledge about forest fire prevention, forest fire prevention and the behavior in forest fires sustainably.

- With this recommendation for action, we want to convey the knowledge about forest fire prevention, forest fire prevention and the behaviour in forest fires sustainably. Any forest fire prevented is better than an extinguished fire.

- Every preventable forest fire is better than an extinguished fire. Never before has it been more important than in times of the climate crisis to preserve our forest in Lower Saxony, for us and for subsequent generations.

- Never before has it been more important than in times of the climate crisis to preserve our forest in Lower Saxony, for us and for subsequent generations. Please pay attention to our forest.

- Please pay attention to our forest.Your Miriam Staudte Lower Saxony Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Consumer Protection Photo: Christian Wyrwa 6 Introduction E ine worldwide increasing number of forest and vegetation fires in recent years – and this not only quantitatively, but also quantitatively – is an alarming sign.

- Her Miriam Staudte Niedersächsisches Ministry für Ernährung, Landwirtschaft und Verbraucherschutz Photo: Christian Wyrwa 6 Introduction E ine worldwide increasing number of forest and vegetation fires in recent years – and this not only quantitatively, but also quantitatively – is an alarming sign. Linked to climate change, heat and drought periods are increasing, increasing the risk of forest and vegetation fires considerably.

- Heat and drought periods are increasing in connection with climate change, which significantly increases the risk of forest and vegetation fires, thereby affecting ever larger areas.

- This affects ever larger areas, resulting in a significant change in the variety of flora and fauna.

- This leads to a significant change in the variety of flora and fauna. The balance in nature and thus the environment of man is severely affected.

- The balance in nature and thus the environment of the human being is severely affected. All of this leads to ever greater challenges in the prevention and control of fires as well as to the increase in the burden on forest owners and fire brigades.

- All of this leads to ever greater challenges in the field of fire prevention and control as well as to the increase in the burden on forest owners and fire brigades. If you take a look at the causes of fire in the forest, you find again and again that the majority of the enlightened causes of fire are either negligent arson or wanton arson.1 The majority of the causes of fire for forest fires are due to wilful or negligent arson by men!

- If you take a look at the causes of fire in the forest, you find that the majority of the causes of fire are either negligent arson or wanton arson.1 The majority of the causes of fire for forest fires are due to arson by people who are willing or negligent. To reduce these factors, it makes sense to educate the population.

- In order to reduce these factors, it is useful to educate the population. The visitors to the forest should be more aware of the importance of the forest and the dangers of forest fires.

- The forest visitors should be aware again of the importance of the forest and the dangers of forest fires. They should know the rules of behaviour avoiding forest fires and also know how to fight fires on vegetation areas.2 In addition to fires, there are other events such as emergencies or accidents from ignorance or carelessness, which lead, for example, to injured persons or dead persons and which thus also result in rescue or fire fighting operations.

- In addition to fires, however, there are other events, such as emergencies or accidents from ignorance or carelessness, which lead, for example, to injuries or deaths and thus also lead to rescue or fire-fighting operations. With this recommendation for action, we would like to present the contents and materials of people who want to carry out fire-protective and fire-protective measures around the topic of forest and vegetation, as well as ideas on how to convey the topic "fire and other emergencies in the forest" in accordance with target groups.

- With this recommendation for action, we want to present content and materials to people who want to carry out fire protection and fire protection-enlightening measures around the topic of forest and vegetation, as well as to provide ideas on how to convey the topic "fire and other emergencies in the forest" according to target groups. The contents are based on the classic modules of fire protection education and fire protection education and represent a useful addition.

- The contents are based on the classical modules of fire protection education and fire protection education and represent a useful addition. This recommendation for action is to be regularly supplemented and further developed.

- This recommendation for action is to be regularly supplemented and further developed. For comments on this the coordination office for fire protection education and fire protection education of the Landesfeuerwehrverbandes Niedersachsen is therefore available to interested readers.

- For comments on this, the Coordination Office for Fire Protection Education and Fire Protection Education of the Landesfeuerwehrverbandes Niedersachsen is therefore available to interested readers. 1 EFFIS – Annual Fire Reports 2000-2021 2 cf. report of the Expert Commission on Forest Fires Summer 2022 in Saxony Photo: Animaflora PicsStock – stock.

- 1 EFFIS – Annual Fire Reports 2000-2021 2 cf. report of the expert commission Forest fires Summer 2022 in Saxony Photo: Animaflora PicsStock – stock. adobe.

- adobe. com 7 Forest and vegetation in Lower Saxony Whether it is the Lüneburg Heath, the Elbe valley valleys, the Geest, forests in the Weserbergland, the Harz or the Wendland, they all have one thing in common, they are more or less susceptible to fires, as the past years have shown over and over again.

- Com 7 Forest and vegetation in Lower Saxony E no matter whether it is the Lüneburg Heath, the Elbe valley valleys, the Geest, forests in the Weserbergland, the Harz or the Wendland, are as different as their composition of the tree population or the flora, they all have one thing in common, they are more or less susceptible to fires, as the past years have shown again and again. Around 25% of the area of Lower Saxony is forested, i.e. approx. 1.204.591 ha of the Lower Saxony total area of 4.763,500 ha.3 25% of the area of Lower Saxony is forested!

- About 25% of the area of Lower Saxony is forested, i.e. about 1.204.591 ha of the Lower Saxony total area of 4.763,500 ha.3 25% of the area of Lower Saxony is forested! Responsible for preventive forest fire protection is primarily the forest end.

- The forest owner is primarily responsible for preventive forest fire protection. He is supported by the forest fire officers as well as the local fire brigades.

- It is supported by forest fire officers as well as the local fire brigades. The land itself supports forest owners through forest support in the establishment of deciduous and mixed forests.

- The land itself supports forest owners through forest support in the establishment of deciduous and mixed forests. Depending on the assessment of the fire risk by the local forces, there can be a forest fire protection concept in the districts and municipalities mostly in the area of civil protection.

- Depending on the assessment of the fire risk by the local forces, there can be a forest fire protection concept in the districts and municipalities mostly in the area of civil protection. The most important to prevent fire spread is a rapid detection of forest and vegetation fires.

- The most important to prevent fire spread is a rapid detection of forest and vegetation fires. There are various possibilities in forest fire detection.

- There are various possibilities in forest fire detection. In the areas with medium and high forest fire risk, there is the automated forest fire early detection system (AWFS), which detects fires with its detectors via image interpretation and alerts the fire control stations from a forest fire centre.

- In the areas with medium and high forest fire risk, there is the automated forest fire early detection system (AWFS), which detects fires with its detectors via image interpretation and alerts the fire control stations from a forest fire control center. Furthermore, there is the fire service, which supports and navigates ground-based forces from the air and can also detect fires and report quickly to the respective fire control center.

- In addition, there is the fire service, which supports and navigates ground-based forces from the air and can also detect fires and quickly report to the respective fire department. And of course, fire detection by an attentive citizen, who sends an emergency call.

- And of course the fire detection by an attentive citizen, who sends an emergency call. 3 numeral mirror forest in Saxony 12-2022, Lower Saxony Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Consumer Protection Photo: Meike Maren Beinert Photo: Fire Department Flight Service 8 In addition to points, which are important in preventive and defensive forest fire protection, there are also those, which concern the population to e.g. avoid fires or to find their way around in the forest in case of an emergency.

- 3 Zahlspiegel Wald in Wiersachsen 12-2022, Niedersächsisches Ministry für Ernährung, Landwirtschaft und Verbraucherschutz Photo: Meike Maren Beinert Photo: Fire Department Flight Service 8 In addition to points that are important in preventative and defensive forest fire protection, there are also those that affect the population in order to avoid, for example, fires or to find their way around the forest in case of an emergency.

- For this purpose, so-called emergency points in the forest are to be mentioned. In recent years red and white signs were installed at over 2,000 emergency points in the Lower Saxony state forest.

- In recent years, red and white signs have been placed at more than 2,000 emergency meeting points in the Lower Saxony State Forest. An individual name stands on this, which consists of the letter combination of the responsible district and a separate numbering of the point.

- In order to guarantee a quick rescue, in an emergency, state forest workers or forest visitors can give the emergency personnel the meeting place name by means of the emergency number "112" .

- In order to guarantee a quick rescue, in an emergency state forest workers or forest visitors can give the emergency personnel the emergency number "112" the meeting point designation. Forest emergency meeting points are defined points for emergency vehicles in the forest, which describe certain meeting points with the help of coordinates.

- Forest emergency meeting points are defined points of entry for rescue vehicles in the forest, which describe certain meeting points by means of coordinates. Thus, these marked meeting points can be used in emergency situations when communicating with the rescue service in order to facilitate the detection of the accident location and to guide the rescue vehicles to the correct place more quickly in the event of an accident.

- In case of emergency, these designated meeting points can be used when communicating with the emergency service to facilitate the detection of the accident site and to guide the ambulances to the correct location more quickly in the event of an accident.The location of the coordinate points is either with signs fixed in the forest or on a virtual level, i.e. as a purely coordinate indication.

- The identification of the coordinate meeting points takes place either with signs fixed in the forest or on a virtual level, i.e. as a purely coordinate indication. Although emergency meeting points do not reduce the risk of an accident, but above all non-experts can serve the better orientation and description of your location in the forest area.4 In the non-state forest there are still rather rare such emergency meeting points.

- Although emergency meeting points do not reduce the risk of accidents, people who are not aware of the location can serve to better guide and describe their location in the forest area.4 In the non-state forest, such emergency meeting points are still rather rare. The German Weather Service also provides important information that is important for forest owners, forests, fire brigades as well as for the population.

- The German Weather Service also provides important information, which is important for forest owners, forests, fire brigades as well as for the population. Here you can call the "Graslandfire Index" and the "Forestfire Risk Index".

- Here you can call the "Grasland Fire Index" and the "Forest Fire Index". The Grassland Fire Index (GLFI) with the values from 1 (very low danger) to 5 (very high danger) describes the fire hazard of open, non-scattered terrain with dead wild grass base without green undergrowth.

- The Grasland fire index (GLFI) with the values from 1 (very low danger) to 5 (very high danger) describes the fire hazard of open, not shaded terrain with dead wild grass base without green undergrowth. Alternatively, the GLFI can also be applied to yellow-ripe grain or stubble fields.

- In addition, the GLFI can also be applied to yellow-ripe grain or stubble fields. The risk level can be used to estimate the effects of a fire of dry grassland (e.g. at railway dams).5 In addition, there is the forest fire risk in dex, which is more important for the forest.

- The risk level can be used to estimate the effects of a fire of dry grassland (e.g. at railway dams).5 In addition, there is the forest fire risk in dex, which is more important for the forest.The risk posed by the weather conditions of the forest is also described here by hazard levels 1 (very low risk) to 5 (very high risk).

- The danger caused by the weather conditions of the forest is also described here by the hazard levels 1 (very low danger) to 5 (very high danger). At the highest danger level there is a very high ignition readiness and a very high fire propagation risk.

- At the highest level of danger there is a very high ignition readiness and a very high fire propagation risk. The forest fire risk index serves to inform the authorities and the fire brigade in order to be prepared in case of a high risk.

- The forest fire hazard index is used to inform the authorities and the fire brigade in order to be prepared for a high risk.The forest fire hazard index WBI of the German Weather Service is a measure of the fire intensity and is based on the calculation of the scatter humidity and the rate of spread of the fire front.6 The forest fire hazard index is often called forest fire level.

- The WBI forest fire hazard index of the German Weather Service is a measure of the fire intensity and is based on the calculation of the scatter humidity and the rate of propagation of the fire front.6 The forest fire hazard index is often called forest fire level colloquially.Emergency points – Marked meeting points for emergencies Grassland fire index – level 1-5, very low fire risk to very high fire risk Forest fire hazard index – level 1-5, very low forest fire risk to very high forest fire risk 4 https://www.

- Emergency points – Marked meeting points for emergencies Grassland fire index – level 1-5, very low fire risk to very high fire risk Forest fire risk index – level 1-5, very low forest fire risk to very high forest fire risk 4 https://www. landsforsten.

- Landesforsten. de/bewirtschaften/forsttechnik/rettungspunkt/ (Access 04.04.2023) 5 Deutscher Wetterdienst 6 Deutscher Wetterdienst Photo: Meike Maren Beinert 9 M mental carelessness, misconduct or even intention are the main reasons that lead to vegetation fires and accidents in nature, but sometimes it is just ignorance.

- en/bewirtschaften/forest technology/rescue points/ (access 04.04.2023) 5 German Weather Service 6 German Weather Service Photo: Meike Maren Beinert 9 M immersive carelessness, misconduct or even intent are the main reasons that lead to vegetation fires and accidents in nature, but sometimes it is just ignorance. In the following information and instructions are given, which methods should be observed in the forest.

- In the following, information and instructions are given on which methods should be taken into account in the forest, including, of course, information to prevent or reduce forest fires and accidents in the forest.

- This also includes, of course, the information that forest fires and accidents in the forest should avoid or reduce. Before visiting the forest Even before the trip to nature, i.e. a walk in the Lünebur- ger Heide, on the North Sea beach or a hike in the Harz, you should inform yourself.

- Before visiting the forest You should get information about the current weather and also about the weather of the past days in the desired excursion area before visiting the forest.The right-hand information about the current weather and the weather of the past days in the desired excursion area can significantly influence the experience.

- The right-hand information about the current weather and also the weather of the last days in the desired excursion area can significantly influence the experience. Heat periods of course not only increase the forest fire risk, but also increase the risk for humans to suffer an emergency.

- Heat periods of course not only increase the risk of forest fire, but also increase the risk for humans to suffer an emergency. This includes a sunstroke, a heat stroke or simply a dehydration with e.g. sports activity in the sun.

- This includes a sunstroke, a heat stroke or even simply a dehydration with e.g. sporting activity in the sun. Another weather phenomenon, which is not to be underestimated in the forest, is the thunderstorm and the storm.

- Another weather phenomenon, which is not to be underestimated in the forest, is the thunderstorm and the storm. No forest should be visited in the event of acute thunderstorms.

- In case of acute thunderstorms no forest should be visited. The forest should be avoided in case of storm danger and storm, as well as a few days later.

- The forest should be avoided in case of storm danger and storm, as well as a few days later. By falling branches or overturning trees people can be severely or even fatally injured.

- By falling branches or overturning trees people can be severely or even fatally injured. Especially after severe weather conditions, forest roads often have to be closed if clean-up work has to take place here.

- Especially after severe weather conditions, forest roads often have to be closed if clean-up work has to take place here. Even rescuers can only reach the injured only to a limited extent.

- Even rescuers can reach the injured only to a limited extent. Also in winter the forest carries a danger.

- Even in winter, the forest harbours a danger. Here, the snowfall and the associated snow load on trees should be considered.

- Here the snowfall and the associated snow load on trees should be considered. This can also lead to broken or falling branches and thus hurt people.

- This can also lead to broken or falling branches and thus harm people. Behaviour in the forest to protect nature7 The forest is a diverse habitat for various animals and plants and an important recreational space for us humans.

- Behavior in the forest for the protection of nature7 The forest is a diverse habitat for various animals and plants and an important recreation area for us humans. Every person is allowed to enter the forest and recover there within the framework of the legal regulations.

- Every human being is allowed to enter the forest and recover there within the framework of the legal regulations. By observing the rules of entry and behaviour, one protects this habitat.

- By observing the rules of entry and conduct, one protects this habitat. Note the general rules of entry and conduct!

- Note the general rules of entry and conduct! Fire and other emergencies – prevent and avoid 7 Cf. parts six and seven of the NWaldLG Photo: Meike Maren Beinert 10 The rules on how to behave in the forest and the other free landscape can be found in parts six and seven of the Lower Saxony Law on the forest and the landscape regulations (NWaldLG).

- Fire and other emergencies – prevent and avoid 7 Cf. parts six and seven of the NWaldLG Photo: Meike Maren Beinert 10 The rules on how to behave in the forest and the other free landscape can be found in parts six and seven of the Lower Saxony Law on the Forest and the Landscape Regulations (NWaldLG).

- In nature conservation areas, more regulations often apply. The fact that no waste belongs to nature is self-evident.

- It goes without saying that no waste belongs to nature. Other uses such as wild camping where a fire is often kindled damage and regularly endanger nature as a habitat for wild animals, and wild growing plants, or are also a nuisance to the property owners.

- Other uses, such as wild camping, where a fire is often used to cause damage and regularly endanger nature as a habitat for wild animals, and wild-growing plants, or are also a nuisance to landowners. Here, the need for awareness-raising of those seeking recreation is required.

- In this context, it is necessary to raise the awareness of those seeking recreation. Codes of conduct to prevent accidents in the forest Injuries, lighter but also severe, have quickly been caused by carelessness or carelessness.

- Rules of conduct to prevent accidents in the forest Injuries, lighter but also severe, have quickly been caused by carelessness or recklessness; simple rules of conduct should be observed in order to reduce the risk of accidents.

- Simple rules of conduct should be observed to reduce the risk of accidents. Do not enter restricted areas!

- Don't enter restricted areas! Watch out for danger points!

- Pay attention to danger points! Consider other people and animals!

- Consider other people and animals! Sometimes the forest is more than just nature with deciduous trees and conifers, but it also includes so-called Lostplaces.

- Sometimes the forest is more than just nature with deciduous trees and coniferous woods, but it also includes so-called Lostplaces. They are abandoned or abandoned forgotten places, such as old factories, hospitals or hotels that are no longer in operation.

- They are abandoned or abandoned forgotten places, such as old factories, hospitals or hotels that are no longer in operation. Lostplaces often seem fascinating and welcoming, but they pose dangers.

- Lostplaces often seem fascinating and inviting, but they pose dangers. At first glance, you can't assess whether there is a risk of collapse or if you can crash in the building.

- At first glance, it is not possible to assess whether there is a risk of collapse or if you may also crash in the building. An often inestimable risk of accident for aben-expensive visitors.

- An often inestimable accident risk for aben- expensive visitors. In addition to the Lostplaces, closed tunnels and mines are also to be mentioned in which the same accident risk applies.

- In addition to the Lostplaces, closed tunnels and mines are also to be mentioned in which the risk of accidents applies. In addition, there is also the risk of straying in the underground area.

- In addition, there is the risk of straying in the underground area. Rock protrusions, demolition edges, sloped terrain in the forest, all risk factors for crashing or slipping people who are on the road in nature.

- Rock protrusions, demolition edges, sloped terrain in the forest, all risk factors for the crashing or slipping of people who are on the road in nature. So you should never approach slopes and get too close.

- One should never approach slopes and get too close. Again and again it can happen that forest and hiking trails are blocked.

- Again and again it can happen that forest and hiking trails are blocked. For this there are various reasons: forest work, tree falsifications, loose branches or fallen trees after a storm or just maintenance work on the way.

- There are many different reasons for this: forest work, tree falsifications, loose branches or fallen trees after a storm or just maintenance work on the way. Blocks of paths or certain areas due to hunting activities are also possible.

- It is also possible to block paths or certain areas due to hunting activities. So there is a versatile photo: Monkey Business – stock.

- So there is a versatile photo: Monkey Business – stock. adobe.

- adobe. com 11 reasons, but they all have one thing in common, the blockings are preventive measures to not endanger people who are on the road there.

- Com 11 reasons, but they all have one thing in common, the closures are preventive measures not to endanger people who are on the road there. A forest can be a real adventure playground away from the roads.

- A forest can be a real adventure playground away from the trails. Stacked wood and tree trunks, rocks or an unknown forest lake invite children and young people to climb and romp.

- Stacked wood and tree trunks, rocks or an unknown forest lake invite children and young people to climb and romp. The wobble and overturning of dead trees is often seen as a fun test of courage.

- The wobble and overturning of dead trees is often seen as a fun test of courage. However, in many of these not quite safe places, toys can lead to accidents, especially when children are on their own.

- But in many of these not quite safe places, toys can lead to accidents, especially when children are on their own. People often visit forests for a variety of reasons.

- People often visit forests for a variety of reasons. Walking to enjoy nature, horseback riding, hiking or cycling to practice sports activities.

- Walking to enjoy nature, horseback riding, hiking or cycling to practice sports activities. Various traffic participants on the forest paths, mean care.

- Different traffic participants on the forest paths, mean care. So it should be shown by all a considerate behavior, so that there are no accidents.

- So everyone should show a considerate behavior, so that there are no accidents. Rules of conduct to avoid forest fires As mentioned at the outset, the main cause of fires in the forest is man with his behavior.

- Codes of conduct to avoid forest fires As mentioned at the outset, the main cause of fires in the forest is the human being with his behaviour. Below, some information is now shown, which should reduce the number of forest fires when observing and implementing forest visitors.

- In the following, some information is now presented, which should reduce the number of forest fires when observing and implementing forest visitors. However, these rules should not only find attention in midsummer, but all year round.

- However, these rules should not only be taken into account in midsummer, but all year round. Spring or the more humid seasons, such as autumn and winter, are not automatically times when there is no edge risk.

- Also the spring or the tending moister seasons, such as autumn and winter, are not automatically times in which there is no edge risk. No open fire!

- No open fire, no crickets!

- Don't cricket, don't smoke!

- No fireworks in the woods, not on New Year's Eve!

- No fireworks in the forest even on New Year's Eve! No open fire in the forest!

- No open fire in the forest! Whether it's the grill, the outdoor cooking equipment, a campfire or the cigarette.

- Whether it's the barbecue, the outdoor cooking equipment, a campfire or the cigarette. From March 1st to October 31st it's forbidden to light any kind of fire in the forest anyway!8 Fireworks in the forest have also lost nothing.

- From 1st March to 31st October it is forbidden to light any kind of fire in the forest anyway! 8 Fireworks in the forest have also lost nothing. Also on New Year's Eve the lighting of fireworks is to be avoided, besides the danger of fire it is also a high burden for the wild animals only by the light effects and the banging.

- Even on New Year's Eve, the lighting of fireworks is to be avoided, besides the danger of fire, it is also a high burden for the wild animals alone by the light effects and the banging. A trip into nature often starts by car.

- A trip into nature often starts by car. Arrived at the destination, a parking lot must be found.

- Arrived at the destination, a parking lot must be found. It is important to make sure that no emergency routes are parked.

- It is important to ensure that no rescue routes are parked. This applies especially to forest parking places, if paths lead from there into the forest.

- This is particularly true on forest parking places when paths lead from there into the forest. Also, care should be taken that cars are not parked on dry grass.

- Care should also be taken to ensure that cars are not parked on dry grass. The grass under the car can ignite.

- The grass under the car can ignite. 8 Lower Saxony law on the forest and the landscape regulations (NWaldLG) Photo: Meike Maren Beinert 12 Fires and other emergencies – the right behavior Visibility and any prudent action can still sometimes go wrong.

- 8 Niedersächsisches Gesetz über den Wald und die Landschaftsordnung (NWaldLG) Photo: Meike Maren Beinert 12 Fires and other emergencies – the right behavior Visibility and any prudent action can go wrong at times. Therefore, it is important not only to provide preventive measures to prevent accidents and fires in the forest, but also the right behavior when something has happened.

- Therefore, it is important not only to convey preventive measures to prevent accidents and fire in the forest, but also the right behaviour when something has happened. As in many other situations, it is first of all: keep calm!

- As in many other situations, it says first of all: Keep calm! Should extinguishing or other rescue operations already run, they should not be hindered of course.

- Of course, if extinguishing measures or other rescue operations are already underway, they should not be hindered. Even if the use of fire-fighting aircraft and helicopters is of particular interest, glaring interested citizens disturb the operation process and thus endanger themselves and the forces.

- Even if the use of fire-fighting aircraft and helicopters in particular seems interesting, glaring interested citizens disturb the operation process and thus endanger themselves and the forces involved. Of course, the same also applies to the use of fire-fighting vehicles, which should also not be hindered.

- The same applies, of course, to the use of fire-fighting vehicles, which should also not be hindered. Furthermore, it should be pointed out that it is always the case that transport control cones are overturned at forklifts.

- Furthermore, there is the indication that there is time and again that transport convoys are overturned at forklifts. This is not an accident and these should not be re-established by passers-by.

- This is not an accident and these should not be re-established by passers-by. These pylons point the way to deployments, in unsurpassed forest areas.

- These pylons point the way to deployments in unobtrusive forest areas. A fire – the right behavior to keep calm!

- A fire – keep the right behavior calm! If possible try to extinguish!

- If possible, try to delete it!

- Get out of the danger zone!

- If there is a fire in the forest or if one discovers a fire, one should quickly consider whether one can extinguish it independently with existing means.

- If there is a fire in the forest or if you discover a fire, you should quickly consider whether it can be extinguished independently with existing means. For example, with a water bottle that you have with you or with leaks.

- For example, with a bottle of water that you have with you or you have with you. However, the most important principle must always be – self-protection.

- The most important principle, however, must always be self-protection. If one can injure oneself in a possible extinguishing attempt, then one should refrain from doing so.

- So if you can hurt yourself in a possible extinguishing attempt, then you should do without it. Then, as in other areas, dial emergency call!

- Then, as in other areas, call 911! The emergency number is 112.

- The emergency number is 112. This applies throughout Europe, i.e. also during holidays in Austria, Spain, Italy or Croatia.

- This applies throughout Europe, i.e. also during holidays in Austria, Spain, Italy or Croatia. If you detect a fire in the forest and dial the emergency call, you should now listen carefully to the control centre staff and answer their questions and follow instructions.

- If one detects a fire in the forest and dials the emergency call, one should now listen closely to the control center staff and answer their questions and follow instructions. As a rule, the opening question for such an emergency call will always be "Where is the emergency location?".

- As a rule, the opening question will always be "Where is the emergency location?". Especially in case of emergencies in nature, or in the forest, one cannot, of course, rely on classic address data, such as the place, the street and the house number.

- Especially in case of emergencies in nature, or in the forest, one cannot, of course, rely on classical address data, such as the place, the road and the house number. Here it is rather about a precise description of the emergency location.

- This is more about a precise description of the emergency site. If you are close to the fire, you can point to a description, such as the name of the forest area, signs that have been seen at crossroads or distinctive features such as shelters or other "sights".

- If you are close to the fire, you can refer to a description, such as the name of the forest area, as well as signposts, which you have seen at crossroads or distinctive features such as shelters or other "sights". If an emergency meeting point is nearby, a reference to the identification is very helpful.

- If an emergency meeting point is nearby, a reference to the identification is very helpful. Also the mention of coordinates, which can be read out from smartphones help, or GPS devices, photo: Jan-Eric Loy 13 which hikers like to have with them.

- Also the naming of coordinates, which can be read out from smartphones, or GPS devices, photo: Jan-Eric Loy 13 which hikers like to have with them. A backup for the control center employees is the AML (Advanced Mobile Location) function, which control points can use.

- A backup for the control center employees is the AML (Advanced Mobile Location) function, which can use control stations. Here the mobile phone is located.

- The cell phone is located here. Experiences from the last years show that this works very quickly and reliably in over 80% of cases, but not always and everywhere and with every phone/phone.

- Experiences from recent years show that this also works very quickly and reliably in over 80% of cases, but not always and everywhere and with every phone/phone. If you have discovered a fire from a distance, and only see a smoke column, for example, the information is important to inform the control center that you are not directly at the fire, but represent where you are and in which direction of view and distance the fire can be seen.

- If one has discovered a fire from a distance, and only sees a smoke column, for example, the information is important to inform the control centre that one is not directly at the fire, but represents where one is located and in which direction of view and distance the fire can be seen. Furthermore, on the topic of orientation in the forest, the emergency rescue plans should be mentioned here, which are often to be found in the forest – see also page 8.

- On the topic of orientation in the forest, the emergency rescue plans, which are often to be found in the forest, should also be mentioned here – see also page 8. The app "what3words" also achieves an increasing degree of awareness.

- The app "what3words" is also becoming increasingly popular. With the help of the app, the exact location can be determined worldwide with a "three-word coding".

- With the help of the app, the exact location can be determined worldwide with a "three-word coding". Especially in the terrain without street names or other location identifiers this can be very helpful.

- Especially in the area without street names or other location identifiers this can be very helpful. A positive factor is that this location determination also "offline" works.

- A positive factor here is that this location determination also "offline" works. In addition to the emergency location, of course, the "What happened?" is also queried, so what kind of emergency it is.

- In addition to the emergency location, of course, the "What happened?" is also asked, so what kind of emergency it is. In this case, a fire in the forest.

- In this case, a fire in the forest. Here, of course, the callers should describe exactly what they see.

- Here, of course, the callers should describe exactly what they see, what burns.

- Is it some grass or several bushes and trees?

- Is it some grass or several bushes and trees? How big is the fire?

- How big is the fire? Furthermore, the control centres can ask additional questions, such as whether there are injured persons or if there are people in danger.

- In addition, the control centre staff may ask additional questions, such as whether there are injured persons or if there are people in danger. Furthermore, the callers will receive instructions on how to behave.

- Furthermore, the callers will receive instructions on how to behave. These instructions should also be followed.

- These instructions should also be followed. For example, this may be the setting up of the fire brigade on site, or that one should leave the fire.

- For example, it can be a case of setting up the fire brigade on site, or that you should get away from the fire. In addition to the classic emergency call by telephone, there is also the possibility to use the Nora app.9 nora is the official emergency call app of the federal states.

- In addition to the classic emergency call by telephone, there is also the possibility to use the Nora app.9 nora is the official emergency call app of the federal states. With the app you can reach police, fire brigade and rescue service quickly and easily in an emergency.

- With the app you can reach police, fire brigade and rescue service quickly and easily in an emergency. Everywhere in Germany.

- Everywhere in Germany. Nora uses the location function of your mobile device to transmit your exact location to the responsible operational control center.

- Nora uses the location function of your mobile device to transmit your exact location to the relevant operational control center. This way, you can better find emergency personnel, even if you don't know exactly where you are.

- This way, you can find more people, even if you don't know exactly where you are. You can also use the app to drop down emergency calls without having to talk.

- You can also use the app to place emergency calls without having to speak. This allows people with limited voice and hearing skills to contact the police, fire brigade and rescue services directly.

- This makes it possible for people with limited voice and hearing skills to have direct contact with police, fire and emergency services. This is how you can use the emergency call app: b You can download nora from the Google Play Store or Apple App Store.

- How to use the emergency call app: b You download nora from the Google Play Store or Apple App Store. b You register by entering a mobile number and your name.

- b You register by entering a mobile number and your name. b If you wish, deposit personal data in order to be well prepared for an emergency.

- b If you would like to, deposit personal data to be well prepared for the emergency. b In an emergency, you can make an emergency call in a few steps.

- b In case of an emergency, you can make an emergency call in a few steps. After the emergency call has been called and professional help is under way, if you have not already done so, you should leave the danger area and put yourself in safety.

- Now that the emergency call has been sent and therefore professional help is under way, you should leave the danger area if you have not already done so and put yourself in safety. Here, for example, the wind should be taken into consideration and the direction of the fire.

- For example, the wind and the direction of the fire should be taken into account. 9 https://www.

- 9 https://www. nora-notruf.

- nora-notruf. en (Access 01.02.2024) Photo: Meike Maren Beinert 14 An emergency – keep calm the right behavior!

- (Access 01.02.2024) Photo: Meike Maren Beinert 14 An emergency – keep calm the right behavior!

- Take emergency call, take emergency action!

- First aid take action! Don't put yourself in danger!

- Do not put yourself in danger! Fires are not the only kind of emergency that can arise in the forest.

- Fires are not the only kind of emergency that can arise in the forest. There are other types of accidents.

- There are other types of accidents. This is mostly about accidents involving injuries to persons or a search for persons.

- This is mostly about accidents involving injuries to persons or a search for persons. If people in the forest are injured, the same applies as in the case of fire in the forest.

- If people are injured in the forest, the same applies to the fire in the forest, and then to dial the emergency call.

- And then dialing the emergency call. It doesn't matter if it's a fire report or if it's another emergency in the forest, like an injured person; here, too, is the emergency call number 112 and the opening question of a co-operating person will be "Where is the emergency location?" The calling person should now be able to name or describe the emergency location as well as possible.

- It doesn't matter whether it's a fire report or a different emergency in the forest, like an injured person; here, too, is emergency number 112, and the opening question of a co-worker will be "Where is the emergency location?" The calling person should now be able to name or describe the emergency location as well as possible. Photo: Meike Maren Beinert 15 In addition to the topic of orientation in the forest, the emergency rescue points, which can often be found in the forest, should be mentioned here again – see also page 8.

- Photo: Meike Maren Beinert 15 In addition to the topic of orientation in the forest, the emergency rescue points, which are often to be found in the forest, should be mentioned here again – see also page 8. In addition to the emergency location, of course, the "What happened?" is also asked, so what kind of emergency it is.

- In addition to the emergency location, of course, the "What happened?" is asked, so what kind of emergency it is. In this case, an accident with an injured person.

- In this case, an accident with an injured person. Here, of course, the callers should describe exactly what they see and what has happened to the supervisor.

- Here, of course, the callers should describe exactly what they see and what has happened to the control centre staff. Furthermore, the control centre staff will now ask supplementary questions, such as what kind of injuries the person has.

- In addition, the supervisors will now ask supplementary questions, such as what kind of injuries the person has. Of course, the callers should not ask a medical diag-nose, but should describe exactly what they see or recognize.

- Here, of course, the callers should not make a medical diag-nose, but describe exactly what they see or recognize. Is the person bleeding, is it responsive?

- Is the person bleeding, is it approachable? Here, exact questions are asked to the caller.

- Here, exact questions are asked to the caller. Furthermore, the caller will receive instructions on how to behave, if necessary you will get hints on measures of the first help.

- Furthermore, the callers will receive instructions on how to behave, if necessary they will receive hints on measures of the first help. These instructions should also be followed.

- These instructions should also be followed. In addition to the classic emergency call by telephone, there is also the possibility to use the Nora app.10 For details, see the previous section on page 13.

- In addition to the classic emergency call via telephone call, there is also the possibility to use the Nora app.10 Details can also be found in the previous section page 13. After the emergency call has been sent and therefore professional help is on the way, one should, if possible, take care of the person concerned or implement exactly what the control center has communicated to you.

- After the emergency call has been sent and therefore professional help is on the way, one should, if possible, take care of the person concerned or implement exactly what the control center has told you. It is always important that the caller does not put himself in additional danger, e.g. with possibly.

- It is always important that the caller does not put himself in additional danger, e.g. in case of well-intentioned rescue operations.

- well-intentioned rescue operations. 10 https://www.

- 10 https://www. nora-notruf.

- nora-notruf. de (access 01.02.2024) 16 Concepts and ideas for the communication of the topic "fire and other emergencies in the forest" in the previous points can be mediated by e.g. fire educators of the population.

- (Access 01.02.2024) 16 concepts and ideas for the communication of the topic "fire and other emergencies in the forest" he contents mentioned above can be mediated by e.g. fire protection educators of the population. Here it is now about the target group-oriented mediation.

- This is now about the target group-oriented mediation. In the following, the contents corresponding to the respective target group are presented with suitable materials.

- In the following, the relevant content for the respective target group is presented with suitable materials. We concentrate on the points of fire and accidents in the forest when communicating the prevention content with the fire-fighting educators.

- We concentrate on the points of fire and accidents in the forest when communicating the prevention content with the fire safety educators. Topics on general nature conservation are not considered below.

- Topics on general nature conservation are not considered in the following.For the kindergarten If one assumes that we are dealing with children aged 1-6, then these are usually not alone in the forest or nature.

- For the kindergarten If one assumes that we are dealing with children aged 1-6, then these are usually not alone in the forest or nature. Due to the cognitive abilities one should focus in this class on the topics of avoiding fire in the forest.

- Because of the cognitive abilities one should focus in this class on the topics of avoiding fire in the forest. If the children discover an accident or a fire, the children should inform their parents or other accompanying persons, so that they can make an emergency call or take other measures.

- If the children discover an accident or fire, the children should inform their parents or other accompanying persons so that they can make an emergency call or take other measures. For children, different methodological approaches are suitable to convey the teaching content.

- For children, different methodological approaches are suitable for teaching the teaching content. In the target group of kindergarten children, there are of course various possibilities that have to do with pictures and stories.

- There are, of course, various possibilities for the target group of kindergarten children, which have to do with pictures and stories. The collection of the teaching materials, which are made available to accompany the present recommendation for action, ranges from images for painting to images that can be used in a Kamishibai narrative theatre.

- The collection of the teaching materials, which are provided for this purpose in conjunction with the present recommendation for action, ranges from images for painting to images that can be used in a Kamishibai narrative theatre. A Kamishibai or in Germany also often known as a narrative theatre.

- A Kamishibai or in Germany also often known as a narrative theatre. Is a frame often made of wood into which you can insert prefabricated pictures in size DINA3.

- Is a frame often made of wood into which you can insert prefabricated pictures in size DINA3. The children sit in front of the picture and you tell them a story about the picture.

- The children sit in front of the picture and they are told a story about the picture. But the children can also describe what they see there.

- But the children can also describe what they see there. Furthermore, there are worksheets that also work with images that can be printed out to the children or projected onto the wall or smartboards with the help of digital media.

- Furthermore, there are worksheets that also work with images that can be printed out to the children or projected onto the wall or smartboards with the help of digital media. Another possibility of teaching the teaching content is hidden images.

- Another way of conveying the teaching content is hidden objects. A hidden object is a large-scale image which is composed of many individual actions, actions, persons and objects and thus results in an overall image.

- A hidden object is a large-scale image that is composed of many individual actions, actions, persons and objects and thus results in an overall image. It is teeming with a plethora of individual scenes, which the children can discover all and from it create connections to actions.

- The images support the spoken word and help to understand the information and the sustainable processing and memorization. The images help to create an abundance of individual scenes, which the children can discover and create links to actions.

- The images support the spoken word and help to understand the information and the sustainable processing and memorization. Drawing: Marina Thies 17 For primary school The cognitive abilities of primary school children are already greater than in the previously illuminated group of kindergarten children.

- Drawing: Marina Thies 17 For the primary school The cognitive abilities of the primary school children are already greater than in the previously illuminated group of kindergarten children. However, it is important to assume that the reading skills are of course not yet so pronounced, especially in the first two school years.

- However, in the first two years of school, one has to assume that the reading skills are of course not yet so pronounced. Therefore, a lot of work can be done with images and language here as well.

- Therefore much can be worked here with pictures and language. So here Kamishibai, Hidden Objects and also colouring pictures are still available.

- So here Kamishibai, hidden object images and colouring images are still available. In addition, however, from grade 3 onwards, there is the independent editing of worksheets, in which the understanding of reading and writing can be used and promoted to train the contents of the prevention of fires and accidents in the forest.

- In addition, however, from grade 3 onwards, there is the independent editing of worksheets, in which the understanding of reading and writing can be used and promoted, in order to train the contents of the prevention of fires and accidents in the forest. Also the methods of action in accidents and fires can now be taught here.

- The methods of action in case of accidents and fires can now also be taught here. Primary school children often already have a mobile phone and can therefore also make phone calls.

- Primary school children often already have a mobile phone and can therefore also make phone calls. As in the classic fire protection education, the practical practice of the emergency call here is of course an important point.

- As in the classic fire protection education, the practical practice of the emergency call here is of course an important point. The pictures, which represent emergency situations, can be used here as examples.

- The pictures, which represent emergency situations, can be used here as examples. On the basis of which the pupils can practice the situations of the emergency call with the help of exercise telephone systems.

- On the basis of which the pupils can practice the situations of the emergency call with the help of exercise telephone systems. For the upper secondary level 1 No matter in which school form, i.e. upper secondary school, integrated general school or high school we are, here all in the previous sections, „fire and other emergencies – prevent and avoid (page 9) and „fire and other emergencies – the correct behavior " (page 12), called competence fields can be taught.

- For the upper secondary school No matter what type of school, i.e. upper secondary school, integrated general school or grammar school we are in, here all can be taught in the previous sections, "fire and other emergencies – prevent and avoid" (page 9) and "fire and other emergencies – the right behavior" (page 12), called competence fields. In addition to the use of worksheets, the information flyers can also be used as educational material in teaching discussions.

- In addition to the use of worksheets, the information flyers can also be used as educational material in teaching sessions. For adults Since the target group of adults is not or only difficult to reach through classical teaching and educational events, such as in schools, other ways must be found here.

- For adults Since one does not reach the target group of the adults or only difficult through classical lessons and educational events, such as in schools, other ways must be found here. For example, one can reach the people at the open door of the fire brigade.

- For example, it is possible to reach persons at the day of open door of fire brigade. But also in facilities dealing with the topic of forest and or tourism.

- But also in institutions that deal with the topic of forest and tourism. The information flyers "Fire and other emergencies – prevent and avoid" and "Fire and other emergencies – the right attitude – can be distributed e.g. in tourism information in the potentially endangered areas.

- The information flyers "Fire and other emergencies – prevent and prevent" and "Fire and other emergencies – the right behaviour" can be distributed in tourism information in potentially endangered areas, for example. These flyers are currently available in German and English.

- These flyers are currently available in German and English. People with impairments People with impairments are a heterogeneous group of people for whom special methodological approaches should often be followed, especially in the case of mental impairments.

- People with impairments People with impairments are a heterogeneous group of people for which special methodological approaches should often be followed, especially in the case of mental impairments. To this end, the application of fire protection information for people with disabilities of the Landesfeuerwehrverband Niedersachsen should be considered in addition.

- To this end, the application of fire protection education for people with disabilities of the Landesfeuerwehrverbandes Niedersachsen should be considered in addition. Of course, content of the recommendations for action available here can also be conveyed.

- Of course, the content of the recommendations for action presented here can also be conveyed. drawing: Marina Thies Fire and emergencies in the forest – prevent together An information sheet from the fire brigade INFO No. 3.4 Photo: AVTG – stock.

- Drawing: Marina Thies Fire and emergencies in the forest – prevent together An information sheet from the fire brigade INFO No. 3.4 Photo: AVTG – stock. adobe.

- adobe. com An information sheet about fire and emergencies in the forest – The right behavior Fire brigade INFO No. 3.41 Photo: yelantsevv – stock.

- com An information sheet about fire and emergencies in the forest – The right behavior Fire brigade INFO Nr. 3.41 Photo: yellowsevv – stock. adobe.

- adobe. com Forest fi res and emerges - How to have to be save Firefighter INFO Nr. 3.41 Photo: yellowsevv – stock.

- com Forest fi res and emerges - How to have to be save Firefighter INFO Nr. 3.41 Photo: yelantsevv – stock. adobe.

- adobe. com Landesfeuerwehrverband Niedersachsen Forest fi res and emerges - prevention together Fire brigade INFO Nr. 3.4 Photo: AVTG – stock.

- com Landesfeuerwehrverband Niedersachsen Forest fi res and emerges - preventing together Fire brigade INFO Nr. 3.4 Photo: AVTG – stock. adobe.

- adobe. com Landesfeuerwehrverband Niedersachsen 18 Order/Procurement of materials and information Looking beyond the box – further forest education projects The Landesfeuerwehrverband Niedersachsen offers accompanying work materials preferably online.

- com Landesfeuerwehrverband Niedersachsen 18 Order/Procurement of materials and information Over the edge of the box – further forest education projects The Landesfeuerwehrverband Niedersachsen offers accompanying working materials to the listed ideas preferably online.The materials are each provided with a methodological-didactical note, so that they can be used in a variety of ways.

- The materials are provided with a methodological-didactic note, so that they can be used in many different ways. The materials can be found on the homepage of the Landesfeuerwehrverband Niedersachsen under the project "Waldbrandprevention".

- The materials can be found on the homepage of the Landesfeuerwehrverband Niedersachsen under the project "Waldbrandprevention". In addition to the working materials, information flyers are available for download or are available in printed form and can be ordered.

- In addition to the working materials, information flyers are available for download or are available in printed form and can be ordered. The portfolio of materials is constantly expanded.

- The portfolio of materials is constantly being expanded. If you have any questions or suggestions on the topic, please contact the Landesfeuerwehrverband Niedersachsen at k-stelle@lfv-nds.

- If you have any questions or suggestions on the topic, please contact the Landesfeuerwehrverband Niedersachsen at k-stelle@lfv-nds. de.

- In addition to the ideas and opportunities to integrate the topic of forest fire prevention into the BE and BA, there are other possibilities to bring children, young people or adults closer to the topic of forest and nature conservation.

- In addition to the ideas and possibilities of integrating forest fire prevention into the BE and BA, there are other possibilities to bring children, young people or adults closer to the topic of forest and nature conservation. Here are examples of three projects of different costs.

- Here are examples of three projects of different costs. Lower Saxony State Forests11 The Lower Saxony State Forests offer interested parties a wide range of offers around the topic of forest education.

- Lower Saxony State Forests11 The Lower Saxony State Forests offer interested parties a wide range of offers around the topic of forest education. These are short-term, daily and even multi-day offers.

- These are short-term, daily and even multi-day offers. In Lower Saxony, there are a large number of forest education centres distributed throughout the country.

- In Lower Saxony, there are a large number of forest education centres distributed throughout the country. People in the forest education centres are pedagogically trained foresters.

- The people in the forest education centres are pedagogically trained foresters. They organize forest-related environmental education in their areas of responsibility and cooperate with schools and other educational institutions.

- They organise forest-related environmental education in their areas of responsibility and cooperate with schools and other educational institutions. In the practical use of youth forest, experienced forest managers take care of the pupils.

- In the practical use of the youth forest, experienced forest farmers take care of the pupils. The forest pedagogical team is supported by certified forest pedagogicals who work for the state forest.

- The Waldpädagogik team is supported by certified forest pedagogues, who work freelance for the state forests. Detailed offers are available at www.

- Detailed offers are available at www.landesforsten.

- landsforsten. de/erleben/waldpaedagogik/unse- re-angebote/.

- 11 https://www.europarl.eu.int

- 11 https://www.landesforsten.

- Landesforsten. de (Access 01.02.2024) 19 Focus Forest12 The project "Brennpunkt Wald" is an activating information and explanation campaign for young people on the topic of forest fire prevention.

- de (Access 01.02.2024) 19 Focus Forest12 The project "Brennpunkt Wald" is an activating information and explanation campaign for young people on the topic of forest fire prevention. Since February 2021, teachers, students and multipliers have been finding information and (teaching) materials on the topic of forest fire, high-quality knowledge and competence for action on forest fire prevention on this website.

- Since February 2021, teachers, students and multipliers have been finding information and (teaching) materials on the topic of forest fire, high-quality knowledge and competence in the field of forest fire prevention on this website. By April 2023, ten thematic modules dealing with the complexity of forest fires will be published.

- By April 2023, ten topic blocks dealing with the complexity of the topic of forest fires will be published. At the center of the project is the offer on the social media channels Instogram and YouTube.

- At the centre of the project is the offer on the social media channels Ins- tagram and YouTube. Here you will find besides the information offer – exactly tailored to young people of the age group 12 to 16 years – also actions, which encourage to participate.

- In addition to providing information – tailored to the needs of young people aged 12 to 16 – you will also find activities that stimulate participation. The project "Brennpunkt Wald" by Eduversum – Verlag and Bildungsagentur is being implemented.

- The project "Brennpunkt Wald-Brennpunkt Wald-Brennpunkt Wald-Brennpunkt Wald-Brennpunkt Wald-Brennpunkt-wald – Verlag und Bildungsagentur" is being implemented. The project offers various teaching units at https://brennpunkt-wald.

- The project offers various teaching units which are available at https://brenzpunkt-wald. de/brenzpunkt-wald. de/brenzpunkt/ 13.

- The Federal Office for Civil Protection and Disaster Relief (BBK) The BBK also offers information and teaching concepts on forest fire and drought.

- Federal Office for Civil Protection and Disaster Relief (BBK) The BBK also offers advice and teaching concepts on forest fire and drought. On the one hand, there is a building block on the topic of drought and forest fire from the campaign "Max and Flocke – Helferland".

- On the one hand, there is a building block on the topic of drought and forest fire from the campaign "Max and Flake – Helferland" . The educational document provides 2-5 materials for the classes, which are intended to promote the following skills of children thematically: b understand the causes and consequences of a drought b know when and how a forest fire can occur b identify possible fire sources and formulate fire prevention measures b understand and justify correct and false behaviours in a forest fire The educational building block as well as the methodological-didactic note can be found on the website "Max & Flake HELFERLAND".

- The educational document offers 2-5 materials for the classes, which are intended to promote the following competences of the children: b understand the causes and consequences of a drought b know when and how a forest fire can occur b identify possible fire sources and formulate fire prevention measures b understand and justify correct and false behaviours in a forest fire The educational building block as well as the methodological-didactic note can be found on the website "Max & Flake HELFERLAND". On the other hand, there is an information flyer for the target group adults on the topic of forest fire, which is provided by the BBK for download and also as a print version.

- On the other hand, there is an information flyer on forest fire for the target group adults, which is provided by the BBK for download and also as a print version. 12 https://brenzpunkt-wald.

- 12 https://brennpunkt-wald. de/projekt/ (access 01.02.2024) 13 Access 01.02.2024 The recommendation for action is a joint action of the Lower Saxony Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Consumer Protection and the Lower Saxony Fire Brigade Association under the agreement "Elucidation campaign – forest fire" of 22.12.2022.

- de/projekt/ (access 01.02.2024) 13 access 01.02.2024 The recommendation for action is a joint action of the Lower Saxony Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Consumer Protection and the Landesfeuerwehrverband Niedersachsen according to agreement "Enlightenment campaign – forest fire" of 22.12.2022. Landesfeuerwehrverband Niedersachsen

