# 25.06.25, 21:35

- Understanding fires, fighting forest fires in a targeted way - forest knowledge. net page 1 of 3 https://www.

- Page 1 of 3 https://www.waldwissen.

- waldwissen. net/de/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/feuer-verstanden Redaktion Forstliche Versuchs- und Forschungsanstalt Baden-Württemberg URL: /de/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/feuer-verstanden Understanding fires, combating forest fires in a targeted manner Anyone who understands forest fires can take preventive measures and derive appropriate tactics to combat them.

- net/en/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/feuer-verstanden Editor's Office Forstliche Versuchs- und Forschungsanstalt Baden-Württemberg URL: /de/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/feuer-verstanden Understanding fire, combating forest fires in a targeted manner Anyone who understands forest fires can take preventive measures and derive appropriate action tactics to combat them. The basis is the knowledge about the origin, spread and behaviour.

- The basis is the knowledge of origin, propagation and behaviour. The fire triangle fuel, oxygen and heat are the three basic factors to inflame and maintain a fire.

- The fire triangle fuel, oxygen and heat are the three basic factors to light and maintain a fire. The fuel must be available in sufficient quantity and appropriate condition.

- The fuel must be available in sufficient quantity and suitable condition. Heat is required for inflammation, oxygen is needed to trigger the necessary chemical reaction.

- Inflammation requires heat, oxygen is needed to trigger the necessary chemical reaction. In the case of forest fires, heat energy is usually generated by human action, e.g. by campfires, fires for incineration of agricultural waste or spark flight.

- In the case of forest fires, heat energy is usually generated by human action, e.g. by campfires, fires to burn agricultural waste or spark flight. Other causes may be arson, lightning strike or munitions-loaded surfaces.

- Other causes may be arson, lightning, or munitions-loaded surfaces. The fuel is all plant material, both living and dead (e.g. dead wood, brushwood).

- The fuel is all plant material, both living and dead (e.g. dead wood, brushwood). Here, the different density is also relevant: fine fuel material such as grass/rice with a low density burns faster, heavy fuel material such as tree trunks or strong branches with a high density slows down.

- Here, the different density is also relevant: fine fuel such as grass/rice with a low density burns faster, heavy fuel such as tree trunks or strong branches with a high density slower. The third component of a fire is oxygen.

- The third component of a fire is oxygen. The amount of oxygen that is available and varies with the wind influences fire behaviour.

- The amount of oxygen that is available and varies with the wind influences fire behaviour. The fire behaviour triangle After the ignition, the further development of a fire is significantly influenced by material properties and the environment.

- The fire behaviour triangle After the ignition, the further development of a fire is significantly influenced by material properties and the environment.The latter include weather and topography (Fig. 2).

- The latter include weather and topography (Fig. 2). The most important variables in the relationship structure of the two triangles are the weather conditions (especially wind direction and wind speed), topography (hang exposure, orientation of the terrain) and the fuel properties (type, quantity and structure of combustible vegetation).

- The most important variables in the relational structure of the two triangles are the weather conditions (especially wind direction and wind speed), topography (hang exposure, orientation of the terrain) and the fuel properties (type, quantity and structure of combustible vegetation).Fuel only influenceable component The fuel, i.e. the vegetation, is the key component in both triangles.

- Fuel only Influenceable component The fuel, i.e. the vegetation, is the key component in both triangles. By removing the vegetation, the spread of a fire can be stopped, while weather conditions are very dynamic and the topography is predetermined and thus not influenced.

- By removing the vegetation, the spread of a fire can be stopped, while weather conditions are very dynamic and the topography is predetermined and therefore not influenced. Especially by preventive measures, the vegetation can be influenced in type, quantity, structure and thus in its availability as a fuel.

- In particular, preventive measures can influence vegetation in terms of type, quantity, structure and thus in its availability as a fuel. Fig. 1: Triad to the emergence of a fire Fig. 2: Factors of influence on the spread and development of a fire 25.06.25, 21:35 Understanding fire, combat forest fires in a targeted manner - knowledge of forests.

- Fig. 1: Triad of the emergence of a fire Fig. 2: Factors of influence on the spread and development of a fire 25.06.25, 21:35 Understanding fire, fighting forest fires in a targeted manner - forest knowledge. net Page 2 of 3 https://www.

- Page 2 of 3 https://www.waldwissen.

- waldwissen. net/de/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/fire-understand Conclusion Cooperation project "Waldbrand – Klima – Resilienz" (WKR) This article is based on the research and practical knowledge in the cooperation project "Waldbrand – Klima – Resilienz" (WKR) between the Forstliche Versuchs- und Forschungsanstalt Baden-Württemberg (FVA) and the European Forest Institute (EFI).

- net/de/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/feuer-verstehen Conclusion Cooperation project "Waldbrand – Klima – Resilienz" (WKR) This article is based on the research and practical knowledge in the cooperation project "Waldbrand – Klima – Resilienz" (WKR) between the Forstliche Versuchs- und Forschungsanstalt Baden-Württemberg (FVA) and the European Forest Institute (EFI).The training modules were designed and published by the EFI.

- The training modules were designed and published by the EFI.The PDF document of the underlying training module on fire behaviour can be obtained via the following link: Lindon Pronto and Alexander Held, WKR Fire Weather Training Module, 2023 Förderer Waldklimafonds, Fachagentur Nachwachsende Rohstoffe (FNR), The Federal Ministry for Food and Agriculture (BMEL), Federal Ministry for the Environment, Nature Conservation, Nuclear Safety and Consumer Protection (BMUV) More on forest knowledge.

- The PDF document of the underlying training module on fire behaviour can be obtained via the following link: Lindon Pronto and Alexander Held, WKR Fire Weather Training Module, 2023 Förderer Waldklimafonds, Fachagentur Nachwachsende Rohstoffe (FNR), The Federal Ministry of Food and Agriculture (BMEL), Federal Ministry of the Environment, Nature Conservation, Nuclear Safety and Consumer Protection (BMUV) More on forest knowledge. net The "fire triangle" consists of fuel, oxygen and heat energy; changes in individual components affect intensity and fire behaviour.

- The "fire triangle" consists of fuel, oxygen and heat energy; changes in individual components affect intensity and fire behaviour. The premise of fire fighting is to remove one or more elements of the fire triangle.

- The premise of fire fighting is to remove one or more elements of the fire triangle. Understanding fire behaviour is the key to effective management of vegetation fires.

- Understanding fire behaviour is the key to dealing effectively with vegetation fires. Temperature, relative humidity, wind, precipitation as well as the past time since the last rainfall play a decisive role in fire behaviour.

- Temperature, relative humidity, wind, amount of precipitation as well as the past time since the last precipitation play a decisive role in the fire behaviour. Properties of fuel such as size, quantity, shape, density and moisture content can significantly influence fire behaviour.

- Features of fuel such as size, quantity, shape, density and moisture content can significantly influence fire behaviour. Overview: Understanding, preventing and combating forest fire (en/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/waldbrandmanagement) In Europe, the risk of forest fire increases!

- Overview: Understanding, preventing and combating forest fires (/en/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/waldbrandmanagement) In Europe, the risk of forest fires increases! The holistic forest fire management relies on cooperation: If the involved actors such as forest and fire brigade networks, exchange information and practice together, fires – not only in the forest – can be better avoided and combated.

- The holistic forest fire management relies on cooperation: If the involved actors, such as forest and fire brigades, network, exchange information and practice together, fires – not only in the forest – can be better avoided and combated. Codes of conduct in areas at risk of forest fire (e.g. forest management/damage management/forest fire/behaviour rules-bei-waldbrand) Questions about forest fire prevention: What are the legal regulations in areas at risk of forest fire and how do I behave there?

- Codes of conduct in areas at risk of forest fire (/en/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/verhaltenregeln-bei-waldbrand) Questions about forest fire prevention: What are the legal regulations in areas at risk of forest fire and how do I behave there? What do I have to do if, despite everything, a fire breaks out in the forest?

- What do I have to do if, despite everything, a fire breaks out in the forest? Fig. 3: Fire on a dry surface.

- Fig. 3: Fire on dry surface. (Photo: Adobe Stock - Rico Loeb) Forest-Climate-Resilience (WKR) 25.06.25, 21:35 Understanding fire, fighting forest fires in a targeted manner - knowledge of the forest.

- (Photo: Adobe Stock - Rico Loeb) Forest Climate Resilience (WKR) 25.06.25, 21:35 Understanding fires, fighting forest fires in a targeted manner - forest knowledge. net page 3 of 3 https://www.

- Page 3 of 3 https://www.waldwissen.

- waldwissen. net/de/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/feuer-verstehen More on the Internet Document info Authors Eike Jentner, Lindon Pronto, Alexander Held Editor's Office Forstliche Versuchs- und Forschungsanstalt Baden-Württemberg (/en/we-ueber-uns/redaktion-fva) Contact Eike Jentner Forstliche Versuchs- und Forschungsanstalt Baden-Württemberg Forstökonomie und Management Wonnhaldestraße 4 D - 79100 Freiburg Tel: +49 (0)761 4018 475 E-Mail (mailto:Eike.

- net/en/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/feuer-verstehen More on the Internet Document info Authors Eike Jentner, Lindon Pronto, Alexander Held Editors Forstliche Versuchs- und Forschungsanstalt Baden-Württemberg (/en/we-ueber-uns/redaktion-fva) Contact Eike Jentner Forstliche Versuchs- und Forschungsanstalt Baden-Württemberg Forstökonomie und Management Wonnhaldestraße 4 D - 79100 Freiburg Tel: +49 (0)761 4018 475 E-Mail (mailto:Eike. Jentner@forst.

- Jentner@forst. bwl.

- bwl. de) Original article Jentner, Eike (2023): Understanding fire, specifically combating forest fire.

- de) Original article Jentner, Eike (2023): Understanding fire, specifically fighting forest fire. Published on www.

- Published on www.waldwissen.

- forest knowledge. net, 12.09.2023.

- net, 12.09.2023. This article is based on the training module on fire behaviour of the working group "Waldbrand – Klima – Resilienz" (WKR).

- This article is based on the training module on fire behaviour of the working group "Waldbrand – Klima – Resilienz" (WKR).

