# 14. Juni 1993 (AllMBl S. 856), zuletzt geändert durch Bekanntmachung vom 22. März 2004 (AllMBl S. 104),

- or after the announcement of the Bavarian State Ministry of the Interior about the alarming in the rescue service, fire and civil protection in Bavaria of 12 December 2005 (AllMBl p. 540). 2Insofar as appropriate, they integrate the local competent offices for food, agriculture and forests as lower forest authorities, the local forestry enterprises of the Bavarian State Forests as well as the private and municipal forest owners into the local alarming system.

- 2Insofar as it makes sense, they integrate the local authorities responsible for food, agriculture and forests as lower forest authorities, the local forestry enterprises of the Bavarian State Forests and the private and municipal forest owners into the local alarm system. 3The procedure for alerting the offices for food, agriculture and forests, the forestry enterprises of the Bavarian State Forests and possibly other forest owners must be defined locally in close coordination.

- 3The procedure for alerting the offices for food, agriculture and forests, the forestry businesses of the Bavarian State Forests and possibly other forest owners must be defined locally in close coordination. 4The offices for food, agriculture and forests and the forestry enterprises of the Bavarian State Forests support the KVB in the alarm planning.

- 4The Offices for Food, Agriculture and Forests and the forestry enterprises of the Bavarian State Forests support the KVB in the alarm planning. 5The KVB immediately assign the alarm planning to the responsible Integrated Control Centres or first alarming places in the fire and civil protection for integration into their system.

