# 25.06.25, 21:36

- Forest management measures for forest fire prevention - waldwissen. net page 1 of 2 https://www.

- Page 1 of 2 https://www.waldwissen.

- waldwissen. net/de/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/waldbauliche-waldbrandvorbeugung Editor's Office Forstliche Versuchs- und Forschungsanstalt Baden-Württemberg URL: /de/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/waldbauliche-waldbrandbeugung Waldbauliche Anlagen zur Waldbrandbeugung Waldbauliche Anlagen such as forest conversion of pine monocultures or the creation of protective strips with fire-resistant vegetation significantly reduce the risk of forest fire.

- net/de/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/waldbauliche-waldbrandvorbeugung Editor's Office Forstliche Versuchs- und Forschungsanstalt Baden-Württemberg URL: /de/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/waldbauliche-waldbrandbeugung Waldbauliche Anlagen zur Waldbrandbeugung Waldbauliche Anlagen such as forest conversion of pine monocultures or the creation of protective strips with fire-retardant vegetation significantly reduce the risk of forest fire. Among the most wood fire-endangered areas in Germany are in large parts the Northeast German, the Eastern North West German and the Upper Rhine Tiefland.

- Germany's most vulnerable areas to forest fire include the Northeast German, the East Northwest German and the Upper Rhine lowlands in large parts. Extensive pine forests in these regions are accompanied by easily combustible soil vegetation and a dry indoor forest climate.

- Extensive pine forests in these regions are accompanied by easily combustible soil vegetation and a dry indoor forest climate. Especially under 40-year-old pine puree populations are at risk of fire due to their deep fortification with easily combustible material.

- Especially under 40-year-old pine cleanstocks are fire-endangered by their deep fortification with easily combustible material. In extremely dry years the fire risk in the forests increases.

- In extremely dry years the fire risk increases in the forests. Most fires are caused by human action.

- Most fires are caused by human action. Avoidance of forest fires can be achieved by various measures.

- The prevention of forest fires can be achieved through various measures. In the end, it is an interplay of the different measures that promise successful prevention.

- In the end, it is an interplay of the different measures that promise a successful prevention. In the case of a forest fire to prevent the spread of the fire or to convert full fire by withdrawal of easily combustible material into easier to extinguish ground fire, the installation or implementation of forest-building and technical measures in areas with high forest fire risk is necessary.

- In order to prevent the spread of fire in the case of a forest fire or to convert full fire into more easily extinguished ground fire by withdrawing easily combustible material, the installation or implementation of forest-building and technical measures in areas with high forest fire risk is necessary. Some forest-building measures achieve their preventive or damage-reducing effect only after several years.

- Some forest-building measures achieve their preventive or damage-reducing effect only after several years. Tree species proportions and forest conversion The forest fire risk is reduced by increasing the proportion of hardwood and thus by changing from pine monocultures to more deciduous mixed stocks.

- Shares of tree species and forest conversion By increasing the proportion of hardwood and thus by changing from pine monocultures to more woody mixed populations, the risk of forest fire is reduced. Nevertheless, in some areas with low rainfall and very poor soils, it will not be possible to reduce the proportion of pines and thus the risk of forest fire in the long term.

- Nevertheless, in some areas with low rainfall and very poor soils, it will not be possible to reduce the proportion of pine trees and thus the risk of forest fire in the long term. In suitable pine stocks, sub- and pre-cultivation of local hardwoods is an important goal in forest fire prevention.

- In suitable pine stocks, sub- and pre-cultivation of local deciduous wood species is an important goal in forest fire prevention. Most deciduous trees growing in Germany contain sufficient moisture even in dry summers, so that no full fire can develop in such stocks or forest fire bars.

- Most deciduous trees growing in Germany contain sufficient moisture even in dry summers, so that no full fire can develop in such stocks or forest fire bars. Birch is an exception, as bark and green foliage can burn in extreme dryness.

- The birch is an exception, since bark and green foliage can burn in extreme dryness. In addition, it forms light stocks at times, in which easily combustible grass and heath settles again.

- In addition, at times it forms light stocks, in which easily combustible grass and heath settles again. On relatively poor locations the red oak has proved to be suitable.

- In relatively poor locations the red oak has proved to be suitable. If forest fire bars of red oak are passed by a fire, the trunks can be placed on the floor the following winter and drive out lushly in the coming year.

- If red oak forest fire bars are run through by a fire, the trunks can be placed on the stick in the following winter and drive out lushly in the coming year. The grape oaks can also be driven out by a stick rash if it is placed on the stick after ground fires.

- The grape oaks can also be excavated by hives when they are placed on the stick after ground fires. More demanding tree species such as beech or grape oaks can be grown in better locations.

- More demanding tree species such as beech or grape oaks can be grown in better locations. The beech is best brought into the stock by the undergrowth.

- The beech is best inserted into the herds by the substructure. Thus, the grass growth is prevented and the foliage isolates the fuel on the ground from that in the crown space.

- This prevents grass growth and the foliage isolates the fuel on the ground from that in the crown area. The tree species Linde, Maple or Hainbuche are suitable for the substructure on better locations.

- The tree species Linde, maple or hornbeam are suitable for the substructure on better locations. Protective strips and forest fire bars In addition to the measures of the forest conversion, other classic prevention measures such as the installation of forest fire bars as well as protective and wound strips help.

- Protective strips and forest fire bars In addition to the measures of the forest conversion, other classic prevention measures such as the installation of forest fire bars as well as protective and wound strips help.A forest fire bar is an area of about 100 to 300 meters wide, with fire-resistant (rub) trees (see below).

- A forest fire bar is an area of about 100 to 300 meters wide, with fire-resistant trees (see above).

- o. ), shrubs and fire retardant soil vegetation is covered.

- ), shrubs and fire-resistant soil vegetation. A forest fire bar is intended to convert full fires in the event of a fire into ground fires which are easier to combat or prevent the spread of ground fires and to withdraw their energy from the fire roller.

- In the event of a fire, a forest fire bar should convert full fires into more easily combatable ground fires or prevent the spread of ground fires as well as remove energy from the fire roller. In order to protect larger forest areas, especially in areas of forest fire hazard class A, these bars are connected to a system.

- In order to protect larger forest areas especially in areas of forest fire hazard class A, these bars are connected to a system. In such a system the main bars run from north to south, as the wind blows mainly from west or east in the event of fire.

- In such a system, the main bars run from north to south, as the wind blows mainly from west or east in the event of a fire. By means of side bars running between the main bars or in east-west direction, the running of the fire can be prevented or the risk reduced.

- By means of side bars, which run between the main bars or in east-west direction, the passage of the fire can be prevented or the risk reduced. Protective strips are about 20 to 30 meters wide with trees covered areas, which are free of easily combustible material (rice, brushwood, drought or right wood).

- Protective strips are about 20 to 30 meters wide with trees covered areas, which are free of easily combustible material (rice, brushwood, drought or right wood). Weak and dry trees are removed and remaining pines are fastened to a height of 4 meters.

- Weak and dry trees are removed and remaining pines are latched to a height of 4 meters. Due to the low amount of fuel and missing fire bridges, it is prevented that a ground fire can ignite the crown space.

- The low amount of fuel and the lack of fire bridges prevents a ground fire from igniterating the crown space. These protective strips lie on one or both sides between roads or railway lines and the wound strips mentioned below.

- These protective strips lie on one or both sides between roads or railway lines and the wound strips mentioned below. 25.06.25, 21:36 Forest building measures for forest fire prevention - forest knowledge.

- 25.06.25, 21:36 Forest management measures for forest fire prevention - waldwissen. net page 2 of 2 https://www.

- Page 2 of 2 https://www.waldwissen.

- waldwissen. net/de/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/waldbauliche-waldbrandvorbeugung Wound strips are of combustible material and humic upper floor free areas of over one meter width.

- net/en/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/waldbauliche-waldbrandbeweugung Wound strips are areas of combustible material and humic upper floor that can be kept free over one metre wide. They run on one or both sides along main roads, roads or railway lines.

- They run on or on both sides along main roads, roads or railway lines. A wound strip prevents the passage of a ground fire.

- A wound strip prevents the passage of a ground fire. By repeated harrowing or plowing in the forest fire season, the function of the wound strip is maintained.

- By repeated harrowing or ploughing in the forest fire season, the function of the wound strip is maintained. Along agricultural decommissioning areas and harvested cereal fields, fire strips are also created by ploughing in Mecklenburg-Vorpommern from forest fire warning stage 2.

- In Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, fire-fighting lanes are also constructed from forest fire warning stage 2 along agricultural decommissioning areas and harvested cereal fields. In Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, a wound strip is installed and maintained in forest areas (forest area > 5 ha) of forest fire hazard class A along railway lines, motorways and federal roads at a distance of up to 15 metres.

- In Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, a wound strip is to be laid and maintained in forest areas (forest area > 5 ha) of forest fire hazard class A along railway lines, motorways and federal roads at a distance of up to 15 metres. On other roads and in areas of danger class B and C, wound strips are to be installed and maintained according to the definition of the forest authorities (M-V Waldbrandschutzverordnung § 6 u. 7).

- On other roads and in areas of hazard class B and C, wound strips are to be installed and maintained according to the definition of the forest authorities (M-V Waldbrandschutzverordnung § 6 u. 7). Learn more about forest fire prevention: guide Forest crisis management Back to the main page of the guide Forest crisis management: overview of the various thematic collections Back to the article overview in the: Themenammlung Waldbrand Document info Authors Susanne Kaulfuss Editors Forstliche Versuchs- und Forschungsanstalt Baden-Württemberg (/en/wir-ueber-uns/redaktion-fva) Contact Network Forest Risk and Crisis Management Forstliche Versuchs- und Forschungsanstalt Baden-Württemberg Forstökonomie und Management Wonnhaldestraße 4 79100 Freiburg Tel: +49 761 4018 231 Fax: +49 761 4018 333 E-Mail (mailto:fva@waldwissen.

- Find out more about forest fire prevention: Guide Forstliches Krisenmanagement Back to the main page of the guide Forstliches Krisenmanagement: Übersicht der verschiedenen Themensammlung zurück zur Artikelsübersicht in der: Themensammlung Waldbrand Document info Authors Susanne Kaulfuss Editors Forstliche Versuchs- und Forschungsanstalt Baden-Württemberg (/en/we-ueber-uns/redaktion-fva) Contact Network Forstliches Risiko- und Krisenmanagement Forstliches Versuchs- und Forschungsanstalt Baden-Württemberg Forstökonomie und Management Wonnhaldestraße 4 79100 Freiburg Tel: +49 761 4018 231 Fax: +49 761 4018 333 E-Mail (mailto:fva@waldwissen. net) Weblink (https://forstliches-Risikomanagement.

- net) Weblink (https://forest risk management. de/) Original article Kaulfuß Susanne (2011): Waldbauliche Anlagen zur Waldbrandbeugung.

- de/) Original Article Kaulfuß Susanne (2011): Forest management measures for forest fire prevention. http://www.

- http://www.waldwissen.

- waldwissen.net (http://www.waldwissen.net).

- net (http://www.waldwissen.

- , 09.03.2011.

- net) , 09.03.2011. Online version

