# 1.

- Introduction The danger of forest fires in Germany varies from region to region due to the different climatic and hygiene conditions as well as the density and stocking of forests (laub, needle, mixed forests).In Brandenburg, for example, extensive pine forests on dry sand soils and frequently existing military wastes favour the risk of fire.1 By contrast, deciduous mixed forests in central mountain areas such as Hesse or Baden-Württemberg are less affected.2 Climate warming makes the forests more vulnerable overall.3 The following graphic by the Thünen Institute and the Karlsruhe Institute of Technology (KIT) gives an overview of the forest fire history in Germany in the years 2002 to 2021.

- In Brandenburg, for example, extensive pine forests on dry sand soils and frequently existing military wastes favour the fire hazard.1 deciduous mixed forests in central areas such as Hesse and Baden-Württemberg are less affected.2 Climate warming makes forests more vulnerable overall.3 The following graphic by the Thünen Institute and the Karlsruhe Institute of Technology (KIT) gives an overview of the forest fire history in Germany in the years 2002 to 2021.The state of Brandenburg (dark red) is therefore most affected by forest fires: 4 1 Sources: Fachagentur Nachwachsende Rohstoffe (FNR): Themendossier Waldbrand; Gnilke, Anne; Sanders, Tanja (2024), Forest fires and the role of military contaminated sites on forest and succession areas in Brandenburg.

- The state of Brandenburg (dark red) is therefore most frequently affected by forest fires: 4 1 Sources: Fachagentur Nachwachsende Rohstoffe (FNR): Themenddossier Waldbrand; Gnilke, Anne; Sanders, Tanja (2024), Forest fires and the role of military contaminated sites on forest and success- sion areas in Brandenburg. Scientific Advisory Board for Forest Policy: The Adaptation of Forests and Forest Management to Climate Change, p. 27: "The pine regions of north-east Germany, the eastern north-west Germany and the Upper Rhine lowlands are most frequently affected.

- Scientific Advisory Board for Forest Policy: The Adaptation of Forests and Forest Management to Climate Change, p. 27: "The pine regions of north-east Germany, the eastern north-west Germany and the Upper Rhine lowlands are most frequently affected.

- 2 Kompetenz und Informationszentrum Wald und Holz: Worth knowing – Waldbrandfahrenindex. 3 Climate Impact and Risk Analysis 2021 for Germany, Summary.

- 3 Climate Impact and Risk Analysis 2021 for Germany, Summary. 4 Sanders, Tanja et al.

- 4 Sanders, Tanja et al. (2023), risk management in the forest setting screws and potentials for reducing forest fire vulnerability.

- (2023), risk management in the forest adjusting screws and potentials for reducing forest fire vulnerability. Scientific Services Department WD 5 WD 5 - 3000 - 007/25 Page 5

