# 3.

- Example: Land Brandburg As the Land of Brandenburg is the country with the highest forest fire risk even according to its own data, the state forest administration plays an important role in the preventive forest fire protection.The forest law of the State of Brandenburg (LWaldG) contains in §§ 20 to 23 regulations for preventive forest fire protection, for the compensation of forest fire damage, regulations for the forest fire risk classes and stages as well as for the handling of fire in the forest.14 With the beginning of the forest fire season, a forest fire alarm plan is drawn up every year by the lower forest authority on the basis of the forest fire release on 1 March.

- The Forest Act of the State of Brandenburg (LWaldG) contains in §§ 20 to 23 regulations on preventive forest fire protection, compensation for forest fire damage, regulations on the forest fire hazard classes and stages as well as on the handling of fire in the forest.14 With the beginning of the forest fire season, a forest fire alarm plan is drawn up every year by the lower forest authority on the basis of the forest fire decree on 1 March.

- It is part of the civil protection plans and contains information on responsibilities and accessibilitys. It is made available to the Integrated Regional Control Centres for Fire and Civil Protection as well as the Retention Services in the Land of Brandenburg, the counties and non-civilised cities as well as the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of the Interior and the Municipal Ministry (MIK).15 In addition to early detection, the country invests in the conversion of pure pine forests into mixed forests.16 The creation of extinguishing water collection points, forest fire bars and maintenance of the paths for fire control lies in the responsibility of the forest owners.17 The newly founded so-called Forest Fire Competence Centre (WBZZ) is intended to carry out essential set-up work in the field of preventive and defensive forest fire protection.18 In addition, the Land of Brandenburg maintains a monitoring system for forest fire detection in endangered forest areas (§ 20 para. 3 LWaldG19).

- It will be made available to the Integrated Regional Control Centres for Fire and Civil Protection as well as to the Retention Services in the Land of Brandenburg, the counties and county-free cities, as well as to the Ministry of Agriculture, Environment and Climate Protection (MLUK) and the Ministry of the Interior and Municipalities (MIK).15 In addition to early detection, the country is investing in the conversion of pure pine forests into mixed forests.16 The creation of fire-fighting sites, forest fire bars and maintenance of the paths for fire-fighting lies in the responsibility of forest owners.17 The newly established so-called Forest Fire Competence Centre (WBZZ) is intended to perform essential set-up work in the field of preventative and defense against forest fire protection.18 In addition, the Land of Brandenburg maintains a monitoring system for forest fire detection in endangered forest areas (§ 20 para. 3 LWaldG19). 12 BT-Drs.

- 12 BT-Drs. 19/11515, reply of the Secretary of State Dr. Helmut Teichmann of 08.07.2019 to the written question 20.

- 19/11515, Answer of the Secretary of State Dr. Helmut Teichmann of 08.07.2019 to the written question 20. 13 BA for Civil Protection and Disaster Assistance, Civil Protection 3(2024), p.4.

- 13 BA for Civil Protection and Disaster Assistance, Civil Protection 3(2024), p.4. 14 https://bravors.

- 14 https://bravors. brandenburg.

- brandenburg. de/gesetze/lwaldg.

- de/gesetze/lwaldg. All 16 federal states have their own forest laws.

- All 16 federal states have their own forest laws. 15 Joint decree of the Ministry of the Interior and Municipal and the Ministry of Agriculture, Environment and Climate Protection to prevent and ward off forest fires (forest fire decree).

- 15 Joint decree of the Ministry of the Interior and Municipal and Ministry of Agriculture, Environment and Climate Protection to prevent and prevent forest fires (forest fire decree). 16 Ministry of Agriculture, Food, Environment and Consumer Protection (2025), Forest Protection – Prevent damage in time.

- 16 Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry, Environment and Consumer Protection (2025), Forest Protection – Prevent damage in time. 17 Cf. § 20 para. 1 Waldgesetz des Landes Brandenburg (LWaldG).

- 17 See § 20 para. 1 Waldgesetz des Landes Brandenburg (LWaldG). 18 Landesschule und Technische Einrichtung für Brand- und Katastropheschutz (2024), https://lste.

- 18 Landesschule and Technical Agency for Fire and Civil Protection (2024), https://lste. brandenburg.

- brandenburg. en/lste/en/service/current-information/detail/~03-12-2024-errichtung-wbzz, 03.12.2024.

- en/lste/en/service/current-information/detail/~03-12-2024-erricht-wbzz, 03.12.2024. 19 Waldgesetz des Landes Brandenburg (LWaldG), § 20 Preventive forest fire protection; § 21 Grant for forest-related fire damage; § 22 Forest fire hazard classes and forest fire hazard stages, § 23 Dealing with fire.

- 19 Waldgesetz des Landes Brandenburg (LWaldG), § 20 Preventive forest fire protection; § 21 Grant for forest fire damage; § 22 Forest fire hazard classes and forest fire hazard levels, § 23 Handling fire. Scientific services Department WD 5 WD 5 - 3000 - 007/25 Page 7 The forest fire centres of the lower forest authority are to be occupied from forest fire risk level 3. Like the federal states of Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, Lower Saxony, Saxony and Saxony-Anhalt, Brandenburg has forest fire centres: "In Baden-Württemberg, Bavaria, Berlin, Bremen, Hessen, North Rhine-Westphalia, Rhineland-Palatinate, Schleswig-Holstein, Saarland and Thuringia, there are no forest fire centres.

- Scientific Services Department WD 5 WD 5 - 3000 - 007/25 Page 7 The forest fire centres of the lower forestry authority are to be occupied from forest fire risk level 3. Like the federal states of Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, Lower Saxony, Saxony and Saxony-Anhalt, Brandenburg has forest fire centres: "There are no forest fire centres in Baden-Württemberg, Bavaria, Berlin, Bremen, Hesse, North Rhine-Westphalia, Rhineland-Palatinate, Schleswig-Holstein, Saarland and Thuringia. Even if no forest fire centre has been established, forest fire prevention can nevertheless take place.

- Even if no forest fire centre has been set up, forest fire prevention can nevertheless be carried out. For example, Bavaria reports that in the event of a high or very high forest fire risk (stages 4 and 5 of the forest fire hazard of the German Weather Service) in the affected areas in cooperation with the German Air Observation Service, air rescue squadel Bayern e.

- For example, Bavaria reports that in the event of a high or very high forest fire risk (stages 4 and 5 of the German Weather Service's risk of forest fire), surveillance flights for early detection of forest fires are carried out in the affected areas in cooperation with the German Air Observation Service, Air Rescue Staff Bavaria e.V.

- V., monitoring flights for early detection of forest fires. Here, trained persons designated by the civil protection authorities, the physicians for food, agriculture and forestry and the forestry enterprises of the Bavarian State are used for air observation.

- The civil protection authorities, the Äm tern for food, agriculture and forests, and the forestry enterprises of the Bavarian State of forsten, use trained persons designated for air observation. The flights are initiated by the civil protection authorities at the initiative of the Bavarian Forestry Administration (through the responsible offices for food, agriculture and forests).

- The flights are initiated by the civil protection authorities at the initiative of and under expert advice of the Bavarian Forestry Administration (through the responsible offices for food, agriculture and forests).The Federal Government has no information available from Hamburg.

- In addition to early detection, the country is investing in the conversion of pure pine forests into mixed forests.22 The creation of extinguishing water extraction points, forest fire bars and maintenance of fire prevention pathways is the responsibility of forest owners.23 At the conference of the specialist agency Nachwachsende Rohstoffe e. V. (FNR) in May 2023 on behalf of the BMEL and the Federal Ministry for the Environment, Nature Conservation, Nuclear Safety and Consumer Protection (BMUV), the experts stressed that forest fire management and forest fire prevention should be uniformly structured and controlled across countries in the future.

- V. (FNR) in May 2023, on behalf of the BMEL and the Federal Ministry for the Environment, Nature Conservation, Nuclear Safety and Consumer Protection (BMUV), the experts stressed that forest fire management and forest fire prevention should be uniformly structured and controlled across countries in the future. This could be achieved by a nationwide and permanently operating institution or platform.24

