# 4.

- DWD Forest Fire Hazard Index (WBI) Since 2014, the German Weather Service's (DWD) Forest Fire Index (WBI) has been providing information on the threat situation of the respective forest in Germany during the forest fire season from March to October on the basis of official climate. It is presented in five forest fire risk levels (1 "very low" to 5 "very high") in regional resolution.

- It is presented in five forest fire hazard levels (1 "very low" to 5 "very high") in regional resolution. It serves as the basis for the 20 joint decree of the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Local Government and the Ministry of Agriculture, Environment and Climate Protection for the prevention and prevention of forest fires (Waldbranderlass).

- It serves as the basis for the 20 joint decree of the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Agriculture, Environment and Climate Protection for the prevention and prevention of forest fires (Waldbranderlass). See also Großwaldbrände in the Land Brandenburg, report on the forest fire season 2022.

- See also Great Forest Fires in the Land of Brandenburg, report on the forest fire season 2022. 21 Reply of the Federal Government to the small request, forest fire hazards in Germany, BT-Drs.

- 21 Reply of the Federal Government to the Kleine Anfrage, Waldbrandfahren in Deutschland, BT-Drs. 19/10990.

- 19/10990. 19.06.2019.

- 19.06.2019. 22 https://mluk.

- 22 https://mluk. brandenburg.

- de/mluk/en/environment/forest/forest/forest protection/.

- en/mluk/en/environment/forest/forest protection/. 23 See § 20 para. 1 LWaldG.

- 23 See § 20 para. 1 LWaldG. 24 FNR (2023) Managing forest fire prevention nationwide.

- 24 FNR (2023) Management of forest fire prevention across regions. Scientific Services Department WD 5 WD 5 - 3000 - 007/25 Page 8 Assessment of the local forest fire hazard.

- Scientific Services Department WD 5 WD 5 - 3000 - 007/25 Page 8 Assessment of the risk of forest fires on site. Based on the WBI, forest and fire protection authorities as well as civil protection can initiate measures to prevent forest fires.26 In the 2025 season, the WBI is to be updated every hour and has a spatially higher resolution.

- On the basis of the WBI, forest and fire protection authorities as well as civil protection can initiate measures to prevent forest fires.26 In the season 2025, the WBI is to be updated hourly and have a spatially higher resolution. In addition to internal model optimizations, year-round calculations are to be carried out and the influence of the terrain on the weather will be taken into account.

- In addition to internal model optimizations, year-round calculations are to be carried out and the influence of the terrain on the weather is to be taken into account.Continuous further development is planned.27 The WBI is available at this link: https://www.

- A continuous development is planned.27 The WBI is available at: https://www.dwd.

- Dwd. de/DE/Leistungen/waldbrandgef/waldbrandgef.

- de/DE/services/waldbrandgef/waldbrandgef. html.

