# 5.

- Forest fire management projects supported by the Forest Climate Fund The Forest Climate Fund – launched in June 2013 as part of the Energy and Climate Fund together by BMEL and BMUV28 – supports research and demonstration projects to optimise forest fire management in Germany, as the risk of forest fire increases as a result of climate change.29 In addition to the DWD WBI and the BrandSat project involved, the Forest Climate Fund projects include the following projects:30 5.1. Focus Forest The Forest Fire Point project, which was carried out from May 2020 to the end of April 2023, was aimed at young people (12 to 16 years old) via Instagram and YouTube to deal with forest fires and their prevention and to classify the increasing forest fire risk in the context of climate change and decreasing biodiversity.

- Focus Forest The project "Brennpunkt Wald", which was carried out from May 2020 to the end of April 2023, was aimed at young people (12 to 16 years old) via Instagram and YouTube to deal with forest fires and their prevention and to classify the increasing risk of forest fire in the context of climate change and decreasing biodiversity. Addressees should be sensitised to the causes of forest fires and activated for forest fire defense.31 5.2.

- 31 5.2. Forest fire-climate resilience (WKR) The aim of the project "Forest fire-climate resilience" (WKR) from May 2020 to the end of April 2023 was to develop innovative recommendations for action for forest fire prevention and management in Germany:32 25 https://www.

- Forest fire-climate resilience (WKR) The aim of the project "Forest fire-climate resilience" (WKR) from May 2020 to the end of April 2023 was to develop innovative recommendations for action for forest fire prevention and management in Germany:32 25 https://www. dwd.

- dwd. de/DE/Leistungen/waldbrandgef/wbx_erlauerungen.

- de/DE/services/waldbrandgef/wbx_erlauerungen. html.

- html. It is possible that the local assessment of forest fire risk may differ from the WBI: https://www.

- It is possible that the local assessment of forest fire risk may differ from the WBI: https://www.dwd.

- Dwd. de/DE/Leistungen/waldbrandgef/waldbrandgef.

- de/DE/services/waldbrandgef/waldbrandgef. html.

- html. 26 FVA (2020), prediction of the forest fire risk situation (prognosis).

- 26 FVA (2020), prediction of the forest fire risk situation (prognosis). 27 FNR (2024), innovation in forest fire protection; see also Landtag Niedersachsen (2024), reply of the Lower Saxony Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Consumer Protection to the small request, How is the state government preparing for the upcoming forest fire season?

- 27 FNR (2024), Innovation in forest fire protection; see also Landtag Niedersachsen (2024), Reply of the Lower Saxony Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Consumer Protection to the Kleine Anfrage, How is the state government preparing for the upcoming forest fire season? 28.03.2024, LT-Drs.

- 28.03.2024, LT-Drs. 19/3937.

- 19/3937. 28 https://wald.

- 28 https://wald. fnr.

- fnr. de/wissen/themendossiers/waldbrand/details/waldbrandpraevention-ueberregional-managen.

- de/wissen/themendossiers/waldbrand/details/waldbrandpraevention-ueberregional-managegen. 29 Waldklimafonds, Waldbrand, Förderung von Waldbrandmanagement.

- 29 forest climate fund, forest fire, promotion of forest fire management. 30 Ebd.

- 30 Ibid. 31 Ibid.

- 31 Ibid. 32 FNR (2024), Focus on forest fire resilience, 11.12.2024.

- 32 FNR (2024), Focus on forest fire resilience, 11.12.2024. Scientific Services Department WD 5 WD 5 - 3000 - 007/25 Page 9 "Forest fire management should be regarded as a holistic task.

- Scientific Services Department WD 5 WD 5 - 3000 - 007/25 Page 9 "Forest fire management is to be regarded as a holistic task. In addition to forest-building prevention, such as the cultivation of hard-to-burn tree species or the creation of protective strips, all-society communication measures are also important cornerstones of successful fire prevention.

- In addition to forest-based prevention, such as the cultivation of hard-to-burn tree species or the creation of protective strips, social communication measures are also important cornerstones of successful fire prevention. Training and practical exercises, which are carried out within the project, should prepare forest workers and fire brigades adequately for the fight against forest fires.

- Trainings and practical exercises, which are carried out within the project, are to prepare forest workers and fire brigades adequately for the fight against forest fires.ErWiN (extension of ecological, forest-building and technical knowledge to forest-fireN) With the project ErWiN34 of the Thünen Institute for Forest Ecosystems, the Karlsruhe Institute of Technology and other participants, which ended on 30.09.2023, it could be demonstrated that diversely assembled trees significantly reduce the risk of forest fires and accelerate the regeneration after a fire.

- ErWiN (extension of ecological, forest-based and technical knowledge to forest-based firesN) The ErWiN34 project of the Thünen Institute for Forest Ecosystems, the Karlsruhe Institute of Technology and other stakeholders, which ended on 30.09.2023, demonstrated that diversely assembled tree populations significantly reduce the risk of forest fires and accelerate regeneration after a fire. In particular, pine monocultures are strongly at risk of fire due to their structure and the fire behaviour of pine litter, which has an extremely high rate of release of heat.

- Pine monocultures, in particular, are strongly at risk of fire due to their structure and fire behaviour of pine litter, which has an extremely high rate of release of heat. Here, an admixture of deciduous trees reduces the risk of forest fire in the short term.

- Here a mixture of deciduous trees lowers the risk of forest fire already in the short term. The scatter of deciduous trees such as beech or oak burns with lower temperatures and not completely.

- The spread of deciduous trees such as beech or oak burns with lower temperatures and not completely. The addition to the pine therefore lowers the fire temperatures.

- The addition to the pine therefore lowers the fire temperatures. A targeted forest management such as the installation of fires, regular controls and, if necessary, the removal of fuel or dead wood without contact with the ground contribute to the spread of fires more slowly and paths remained passable during a fire.

- Targeted forest management, such as the installation of fires, regular controls and, if necessary, the removal of fuel or dead wood without contact to the ground, contribute to the fact that fires spread more slowly and paths remained passable during a fire. Much of the forest fires would result from human activities: spark flight from the grill, open fire, discarded cigarettes or intentional fire foundation.35 A final report can be downloaded.

- A large part of the forest fires would be caused by human activities: spark flight from the grill, open fire, discarded cigarettes or intentional fire.35 A final report can be downloaded. 5.4.

- 5.4. Forest fire protection project THOR THOR, the joint project: Development, optimization and implementation of prevention and aftercare strategies for the protection of forests against forest fires, will also be implemented from May 2020 to Ap-ril 2025 via the forest climate fund at the specialist agency Nachwachsende Rohstoffe e.

- THOR forest fire protection project THOR, the joint project: Development, optimization and implementation of prevention and aftercare strategies for the protection of forests against forest fires, will also be funded from May 2020 to April 2025 via the Forest Climate Fund at the Fachagentur Nachwachsende Rohstoffe e. V. (FNR).36 A PowerPoint presentation on the THOR forest fire protection project is available.

- V. (FNR).36 A PowerPoint presentation on the THOR forest fire protection project is available. 33 https://www.

- 33 https://www.waldklimafonds.

- waldklimafonds. de/themen/waldbrand; see also Waldbrand-Klima-Resilizenz (WKR).

- de/themen/waldbrand; see also Waldbrand-Klima-Resilizenz (WKR). 34 project, extension of ecological, forest building and technical knowledge to forest firesN (ErWiN), end of project 30.09.2023.

- 34 project, extension of ecological, forest and technical knowledge to forest firesN (ErWiN), end of project 30.09.2023. 35 Sanders,Tanja; Gnilke, Anne (2023), A growing challenge: forest fires and effective countermeasures.

- 35 Sanders, Tanja; Gnilke, Anne (2023), A growing challenge: forest fires and effective countermeasures. 36 Forest fire protection project THOR, https://www.

- 36 Forest fire protection project THOR, https://www. thor-waldbrandschutz.

- thor-waldbrandschutz. en/.

- Scientific Services Department WD 5 WD 5 - 3000 - 007/25 Page 10 5.5.

- Scientific Services Department WD 5 WD 5 - 3000 - 007/25 Page 10 5.5. PYROPHOB One of the flagship projects for research into forest fire consequences in Brandenburg is the joint project: Strategies for the development of pyrophobic and climate change-resilient forests on forest fire areas (PYROPHOB) − Paths to resilient forests.37 The project ends on 30.04.2025.

- PYROPHOB One of the flagship projects for research into forest fire consequences in Brandenburg is the joint project: Strategies for the development of pyrophobic and climate change-resilient forests on forest fire areas (PYROPHOB) − Paths to resilient forests.37 The project ends on 30.04.2025. Eight partners of the project work "on the questions of what a fire-repellent forest looks like and how forest ecosystems remain resilient in climate change.

- Eight partners of the project are working "on the questions of what a fire-repellent forest looks like and how forest ecosystems remain resilient in climate change. Research is being carried out on areas in a research area in southern Brandenburg with a total size of 65 hectares.

- For this purpose, research is carried out on areas in a research area in the south of Brandenburg with a total size of 65 hectares. These are partly burnt areas, which are experienced within the project different treatments (e.g. balefall, natural rejuvenation or soil treatment) and are examined in this way.

- These are partly burnt areas, which are experienced within the project different treatments (e.g. balefall, natural rejuvenation or soil treatment) and are examined to this end. Soil and water balance, vegetation and fauna as well as tree growth and the development of the microclimate are examined.

- Soil and water balance, vegetation and fauna as well as tree growth and the development of the microclimate are assessed. This enables the analysis of the effects of different management variants on the development of forest fire areas and recommendations for action on the development of climate change-resilient and hard-to-burn forests.

