# 6.

- Federal-Country Working Group "National Forest Fire Protection" − National Strategy against Vegetation Fire In the journal of the Federal Office for Civil Protection and Disaster Assistance (BBK), the Federal-Country Working Group "National Forest Fire Protection" explains that the main objectives of preventing and combating forest fire protection are to prevent or combat vegetation fires early on. The Working Group "National Forest Fire Protection", founded in 2018, has developed a "National Strategy against Vegetation Fire Control", which closely reflects the results of the German Fire Brigade Association's work.

- The Working Group "National Forest Fire Protection", which was founded in 2018, has developed a "National Strategy against Vegetation Fire Control", which is closely related to the results of the German Fire Brigade Association. The results serve as a basis for the development of own country strategies.39 The interim report of the open-country working group "National Forest Fire Protection" (May 2023) and the National Vegetation Fire Control Strategy of the Standing Conference of Home Affairs Ministers and Senators of the Countries (IMK) is also referred to.

- The results serve as a basis for the development of own country strategies.39 Reference will continue to be made to the interim report of the open-country working group "National Forest Fire Protection" (May 2023) and the National Vegetation Fire Control Strategy of the Permanent Conference of the Interior Ministers and Senators of the Länder (IMK). The results of the sub-working group (UAG) "Preventive Measures in Preventive Forest Fire Protection" (Forst Contact Group)40 for the provision of fire water, for the development of forest resources, for forest-building measures and forest fire protection strips, for forest fire prevention, for the education of the population, for information on the area of application and for the training of the employees of municipalities, fire brigades, forest administrations and forest owners can be found on pages 8f in the contribution of Engel 37 The Wilderness Foundation (2025), closing event PYROPHOB on 27.02.2025.

- The results of the sub-working group (UAG) "Preventive measures in preventive forest-fire protection" (Forst contact group)40 for the supply of extinguishing water, for the development of forest resources, for forest-building measures and forest fire protection strips, for forest fire prevention, for the education of the population, for information on the area of application as well as for the training and training of employees of municipalities, fire brigades, forest administrations and forest owners can be found on pages 8f in the contribution of Engel 37 Die Wilderheitsstiftung (2025), final event PYROPHOB on 27.02.2025. 38 https://www.

- 38 https://www.waldklimafonds.

- waldklimafonds. de/themen/waldbrand.

- 39 Cf. BA for Civil Protection and Disaster Assistance, Civil Protection 3(2024), p. 2f.

- 39 Cf. BA for Civil Protection and Disaster Assistance, Civil Protection 3(2024), p. 2f. 40 Sub-working group (UAG) of the National Forest Fire Protection AG.

- 40 subworking group (UAG) of the AG National Forest Fire Protection. Scientific Services Department WD 5 WD 5 - 3000 - 007/25 Page 11 "Teamwork is the key to success!

- Scientific Services Department WD 5 WD 5 - 3000 - 007/25 Page 11 "Teamwork is the key to success! How forest and fire brigade work together effectively" in BA for Civil Protection and Disaster Relief, Civil Protection 3(2024).

