# 8.

- Support programme climate-adapted forest management The support programme "Climate-adapted forest management"46, which has been financed by the BMUV's Natural Climate Action Programme (ANK) since 2024, has since been continued under joint responsibility of BMUV and BMEL.47 It enables private and municipal forest owners and forest business communities to receive funding if they undertake to comply with criteria for climate-adapted forest management for a period of 10 or 20 years, depending on the size of the forest area. It is subject to an extra developed and recognised certification system.48 The aim of the support is the conservation, development and management of climate-resilient forests.

- It is subject to an extra developed and recognised certification system.48 The aim of the funding is the conservation, development and management of climate-resilient forests. Only forests adapted to the climate are "permanently able to fill the CO2 bonding in forests and wood as well as the other ecosystem services (e.g. protection of biodiversity, recovery of the population, provision of further public services as well as the supply of raw wood).

- Only forests adapted to the climate are "permanently able to fulfil the CO2 binding in forests and wood as well as the other ecosystem services (e.g. protection of biodiversity, recovery of the population, provision of other public services and the supply of raw wood).

- (2020): Key points of the Forest Strategy 2050. Opinion of the Scientific Advisory Council on Forest Policy.

- Opinion of the Scientific Advisory Council on Forest Policy. 42 BMEL (2022), Forest Strategy, Strategic orientation of national forest policy in times of climate change, 27.10.2022.

- 42 BMEL (2022), Forest Strategy, Strategic orientation of national forest policy in times of climate change, 27.10.2022. 43 See also the report of the Scientific Advisory Board for Forest Policy at the Federal Ministry of Food and Agriculture (2021), The Adaptation of Forests and Forest Management to Climate Change, October 2021.

- 43 See also the expert opinion of the Scientific Advisory Board for Forest Policy at the Federal Ministry of Food and Agriculture (2021), The Adaptation of Forests and Forest Management to Climate Change, October 2021. 44 BMEL (2021), Federal Minister Klöckner presents Forest Strategy 2050, adapting forests to climate change – forest conversion is continuing, 07.09.2021.

- 44 BMEL (2021), Federal Minister Klöckner presents forest strategy 2050, adapting forests to climate change – forest conversion continued, 07.09.2021. 45 BMEL (2021), forest strategy 2050, sustainable forest management – challenges and opportunities for people, nature and climate, p. 23.

- 45 BMEL (2021), Forest Strategy 2050, Sustainable Forest Management – Challenges and Opportunities for Humans, Nature and Climate, p. 23. 46 Guidelines for Grants to Climate Adapted Forest Management of 28 October 2022 (as amended on

