# 1.

- Introduction The civil protection system in Germany is basically divided into civil protection and civil protection. Civil protection means the protection of the population from the effects of military measures and belongs according to the type.

- Civil protection means the protection of the population from the effects of military measures and belongs to Art. 73 para. 1 No. 1 Grundgesetz (GG)1 and Art.

- 73 para. 1 no. 1 Grundgesetz (GG)1 and Art. 87b para. 2 sentence 1 GG for the exclusive legislative competence of the federal government.

- 87b para. 2 sentence 1 GG on the exclusive legislative competence of the federal government. The Federal Office for Civil Protection and Civil Protection (BBK) is the permanent authority in the area of the federal government.

- The Federal Office for Civil Protection and Civil Protection (BBK) is a permanent authority in the Federal Republic of Germany.

- Civil protection falls in accordance with Art. 70 para. 1 GG i.

- 70 para. 1 GG i. v. m. Art.

- V. m. Art. 30 GG into the jurisdiction of the countries.

- In the event of a disaster (e.g. floods and forest fires), the interior ministries of the countries as the highest civil protection authorities and the counties and non-circular cities with their specialist offices as the lower civil protection authorities are responsible.2 The implementation of the security for civil protection takes place at the municipal level, the federal government can according to Art.

- In the event of a disaster (e.g. floods and forest fires), the interior ministries of the Länder as the highest civil protection authorities and the districts and non-circular cities with their specialist offices as the lower civil protection authorities are responsible.2 The implementation of the security for civil protection takes place at the municipal level, the federal government can provide administrative assistance according to Art. 35 para. 2 and para. 3 GG.

- The Federal Government supplements the provision of civil protection in the areas of fire protection, ABC protection, sanitation and care, § 13 para. 1 Civil Protection and Disaster Assistance Act (ZSKG)3.

- The Federal Government supplements the provision of civil protection in the areas of fire protection, ABC protection, sanitation and care, § 13 para. 1 Civil Protection and Disaster Assistance Act (ZSKG)3. In Germany, firefighting helicopters from the air are currently being used by the Bundeswehr and Bundespolizei to combat forest fires and vegetation fires.4 Germany does not have its own fire-fighting aircraft,5 but can request fire-fighting aircraft from the emergency service of the "rescEU" fire-fighting fleet of the EU.6 Thus Italy supported Germany in a forest fire-fighting in early September 2022 with the provision of two Canadair CL 415.7 1 basic law for the Federal Republic of Germany of 23 May 1949 (BGBl.

- In Germany, fire-fighting helicopters of the Bundeswehr and the Bundespolizei are currently being used to combat forest fires and vegetation fires from the air by means of mutual assistance.4 Germany does not have its own fire-fighting aircraft,5 but can request fire-fighting aircraft from the on-call service of the "rescEU" fire-fighting fleet of the EU.6 Thus Italy supported Germany in a forest fire-fighting at the beginning of September 2022 with the provision of two Canadair CL 415.7 1 basic law for the Federal Republic of Germany of 23 May 1949 (BGBl. p. 1), last amended by Art.

- 1), as last amended by Art. 1 ÄndG (Art.

- 1 ÄndG (Art. 87a) of 28.6.2022 (BGBl I, p.

- 87a) of 28.6.2022 (BGBl. I p. 968).

- I p. 968). 2 Federal Office for Civil Protection and Disaster Assistance, available at: https://www.

- 2 Federal Office for Civil Protection and Disaster Assistance, available at: https://www.bbk.

- bbk. bund.

- bund. de/DE/Das- BBK/Das-BBK-stellen- sich-vor/Das-deutsche-Bevoelkerungsschutzsystem/das-deutsche-bevoelkerungsschutzsys-tem_node.

- en/DE/Das- BBK/Das-BBK-stellen- sich-vor/Das-deutsche-Bevoelkerungsschutzsystem/das-deutsche-bevoelkerungsschutzsys-tem_node. html.

- html. 3 Civil Protection and Disaster Assistance Act of 25 March 1997 (BGBl.

- 3 Civil Protection and Disaster Assistance Act of 25 March 1997 (BGBl I, p. 726), as last amended by Article 144 of the Regulation of 19 June 2020 (BGBl I, p.

- 726), as last amended by Article 144 of the Regulation of 19 June 2020 (BGBl I, p. 1328).

- I p. 1328). 4 BT-Drs.

- 4 BT-Drs. 19/25665, p. 2; BT-Drs.

- 19/25665, p. 2; BT-Drs. 19/11515, p. 16.

- 19/11515, p. 16. 5 Zawadke, Vegetation Fire Control Technology, 2021, p. 175; BT-Drs.

- 5 Zawadke, Vegetation Fire Control Technology, 2021, p. 175; BT-Drs. 19/11757, p. 9.

- 19/11757, p. 9. 6 European Civil Protection and Humanitarian Aid, rescEU, available at: https://civil-protection-huma的 nitarian-aid.

- 6 European Civil Protection and Humanitarian Aid, rescEU, available at: https://civil-protection-huma-nitarian-aid. ec.

- ec. europa.

- europa. eu/what/civil-protection/resceu_en.

- eu/what/civil-protection/resceu_en. 7 Spiegel online, Waldbrand im Harz, Italy sends extinguishing aircraft to the Brocken, 4 September 2022, at https://www.

- 7 Spiegel online, Waldbrand im Harz, Italy sends extinguishing aircraft to the Brocken, 4 September 2022, available at https://www.spiegel.

- de/panorama/waldbrand-im-harz-italien-schickt-loeschflugere-an-den- brocken-a-5c2a1508-e40c-4547-9edd-d89cc7171ef4; mdr-Reportage, How the Italian flight squadron supports the loessar-betting at the Brocken, from 8 September 2022 https://www.

- de/panorama/waldbrand-im-harz-italien-schickt-loeschflugere-an-den- brocken-a-5c2a1508-e40c-4547-9edd-d89cc7171ef4; mdr-Reportage, How the Italian flight squadron supports the loessar-betting at the Brocken, 8 September 2022 https://www. mdr.

- mdr. en/nachrichten/sachsen-anhalt/mag-deburg/harz/brocken-brand-hilfe-italien-loeschflugere-100.

- en/nachrichten/sachsen-anhalt/mag-deburg/harz/brocken-brand-hilfe-italien-loeschflugere-100. html.

- html. Scientific Services Documentation WD 3 - 3000 - 130/22 Page 4 The documentation provides an overview of the technical data of extinguishing aircraft as well as the requirements for the use of extinguishing aircraft in forest and vegetation fires, in particular the requirements for take-off and landing of extinguishing aircraft, the reception of extinguishing water, the ranges of the extinguishing aircraft, types or manufacturers of extinguishing aircraft, as well as purchase costs and running costs for extinguishing aircraft.

