# 5.

- ABC-Danger-Defence. (2) The units and equipment of fire protection as well as the ABC-Danger-Defence-Units are the districts and county-free cities.

- (2) The units and facilities of fire protection as well as the ABC-Danger Defense Units are run by the counties and county-free cities. The units and facilities of the medical system, the care and the water rescue are the private relief organizations obliged to participate in civil protection according to § 10.

- The private aid organizations required to participate in civil protection pursuant to § 10 are the sponsors of the units and facilities of the medical services, the care and the water rescue. (3) The Ministry of State of the Interior, in consultation with the relevant ministries of state, determines the number, strength, structure and equipment of the national units after consulting the local associations.

- (3) The State Ministry of the Interior, in consultation with the relevant ministries of state, shall, after consulting the local regional associations, determine the number, strength, structure and equipment of the unitary units of the Länder. To the extent that the interests of those obliged to participate in civil protection and the private aid organizations (§ 10) are affected, their regional organizations and the Landesfeuerwehrverband Sachsen are to be heard.

- As far as the interests of those obliged to participate in civil protection and the private aid organizations (§ 10) are concerned, their national organizations and the Landesfeuerwehrverband Sachsen are to be heard. The establishment of further civil protection units and institutions by those obliged to participate and the private aid organizations remains unaffected.

- The establishment of further civil protection units and institutions by those obliged to cooperate and the private aid organizations remains unaffected by this. § 8 State Advisory Council for Civil Protection (1) The State Ministry of the Interior appoints a State Advisory Council for Civil Protection to advise and support on civil protection issues.

- § 8 State Advisory Council for Civil Protection (1) The State Ministry of the Interior appoints a State Advisory Council for Civil Protection to advise and support on civil protection issues, which is to be heard on fundamental issues of civil protection.

