# 8.

- The chambers shall inform the members of the chamber thereof, indicating the data updating procedure according to the third sentence.

- The Chambers shall inform the members of the Chamber thereof, indicating the data update procedure referred to in the third sentence. They shall notify the Civil Protection Authority of any changes and additions to the personal data transmitted to the Civil Protection Authority pursuant to the first sentence, which have become officially known to them at least annually.

- They shall notify the Civil Protection Authority at least annually of any changes and additions to the personal data transmitted to the Civil Protection Authority in accordance with the first sentence. The Civil Protection Authority may process the personal data transmitted by the Chambers only for purposes within the meaning of § 2 para. 1 No. 2 and 3, § 9 para. 2 No. 2 and 4 to 6, § 11 para. 1 Sentence 1, § 12 para. 1 and § 22.

- The Civil Protection Authority may process the personal data transmitted by the chambers only for purposes within the meaning of § 2 para. 1 No. 2 and 3, § 9 para. 2 No. 2 and 4 to 6, § 11 para. 1 Sentence 1, § 12 para. 1 and § 22. The data must be deleted if they are no longer required for these purposes.

- The data shall be deleted if they are no longer required for these purposes. (3) The second sentence of paragraph 1 shall apply mutatis mutandis to nurses, X-rays or medical-technical laboratory staff working in their profession.

- 3. The second sentence of paragraph 1 shall apply mutatis mutandis to nurses, X-rays or medical-technical laboratory personnel working in their profession. Delayed doctors, dentists and hospitals shall, at the request of the lower civil protection authority, transmit the following data to the persons referred to in the first sentence at least annually:

