# 8.

- The established doctors, dentists and the hospitals provide information to the persons concerned.

- The established doctors, dentists and the hospitals inform the affected persons of this. Second section Helper law § 13 Helpers in civil protection (1) Helpers within the meaning of this law are women and men who have voluntarily committed themselves to volunteer service in civil protection to the institutions of the civil protection units (§ 7 para. 2) for a certain or indefinite period of time.

- Second Section Helpers' Right § 13 Helpers in Civil Protection (1) Helpers within the meaning of this Act are women and men who have voluntarily committed themselves to voluntary service in civil protection for a certain or indefinite period of time to the institutions of the Civil Protection Units (§ 7 para. 2). (2) Conscripts or helpers who are recognized as conscientious objectors may, in accordance with § 13a of the German Civil Protection Act as amended by the notice dated 15 December 1995 (BGBl.

- (2) Conscripted helpers or helpers recognised as conscientious objectors may, in accordance with § 13a of the Conscription Act as amended by the notice dated 15 December 1995 (BGBl. I p. 1756), as amended by Art.

- 1756), as amended by Article 6 of the Law of 25 March 1997 (BGBl I, p.

- 6 of the Law of 25 March 1997 (BGBl. I p. 726, 732), or § 14 of the Civil Service of Conscientious Objectors (Zivildienstgesetz – ZDG), as amended by the notice of 28 September 1994 (BGBl.

- 726, 732), or § 14 of the Civil Service of Conscientious Objectors Act (Zivildienstgesetz – ZDG), as amended by the notice dated 28 September 1994 (BGBl I, p. 2811), as last amended by Art.

- 2811), as last amended by Article 29 of the Law of 21 September 1997 (BGBl I, p.

- 29 of the Law of 21 September 1997 (BGBl I, p. 2396, 2393), which is without prejudice to this provision, are exempted from military service or civil service for civil protection service.

- I, p. 2396, 2393), which remain unaffected by this regulation, shall be exempted from military service or civil service for civil protection service. § 14 Rights and obligations of the helpers (1) Unless otherwise provided by this law or other legislation, the rights and obligations of the helpers involved under this law shall apply only to the carrier of the civil protection unit to which they belong for the duration of the official events, training events, exercises and operations.

- § 14 Rights and obligations of the helpers (1) Unless otherwise provided by this law or other legislation, the rights and obligations of the helpers involved under this law shall apply for the duration of the official events, training events, exercises and operations only to the institution of the Civil Protection Unit to which they belong. (2) The helpers are obliged to participate in the official events, training events, exercises and operations of the institution of the Civil Protection Unit to which they belong and may be used by them on the basis of their obligation.

- 2. The helpers shall be obliged to participate in the official events, training events, exercises and operations of the Civil Protection Agency to which they belong and may be used by them on the basis of their obligation. The supporter of the Civil Protection Unit shall invite the helpers to participate at least four weeks before the start of the training event.

- The institution of the Civil Protection Unit calls on the helpers to participate at least four weeks before the start of the training event. The training events should usually take place outside the usual working hours and not exceed two hundred hours per year.

- The training courses should normally take place outside normal working hours and should not exceed two hundred hours per year. The employee must immediately submit the invitation to participate in the training course to his employer.

- The employee shall immediately submit the invitation to take part in the training event to his employer. (3) Workers shall not suffer any disadvantages in the employment relationship, social security, promotion of work and occupational pensions arising from their obligation to serve civil protection and that service.

- 3. Workers shall not suffer from any disadvantages in employment, social security, promotion of work and occupational pensions arising from their obligation to serve in civil protection or from that service. 4. Where workers take part in missions, exercises, service events or training events during working hours, they shall be exempted from work performance for the duration of their participation by employers or service providers.

- 4. Where workers take part in assignments, exercises, service events or training events during working hours, they shall be exempted from work performance for the duration of participation by employers or service providers. (5) For the duration of participation in assignments, exercises, service events or training events taking place during working hours, the helpers shall be entitled to further payment of the remuneration.

- 5. For the duration of participation in operations, exercises, service events or training events taking place during working hours, the helpers shall be entitled to a further payment of remuneration. Insurance relationships in the social security system and under the right of promotion of work and occupational pensions shall not be affected by the Civil Protection Service.

- The Civil Protection Service shall not affect insurance relationships in the social security system and under the law of promotion of work and occupational pensions. Private employers shall be reimbursed for the continued remuneration, including their contributions to social security and promotion of work, as well as for occupational pensions, for the entire period of downtime at the request of the Civil Protection Units.

- Private employers shall be required to reimburse the continued wage, including their contributions to social security and support for work and occupational pensions, for the entire period of incapacity upon application by the Civil Protection Units institutions, who shall also, upon request, reimburse private employers for the remuneration they pay to employees under statutory provisions or under the employment contract during illness-related incapacity for work if the disability is due to the civil protection service.

- They must also, upon application, reimburse private employers for the remuneration they pay to employees under the statutory provisions or under the employment contract during an incapacity for work due to illness, if the incapacity for work is due to the civil protection service. In the case of official missions, exercises and training measures, the ordering authority must bear the replacement costs.

- 6. Aid workers who are not entitled to benefits under paragraph 5 shall be replaced by the institutions of the Civil Protection Units by the loss of earnings resulting from the civil protection service.

- (6) Supporters who are not entitled to benefits under paragraph 5 shall not be replaced by the institutions of the Civil Protection Units by the loss of earnings incurred by them by the Civil Protection Service. (7) The Civil Protection Service shall not preclude the benefits of the Federal Institute for Labour, Social Assistance and other public support or remuneration.

- (7) The Civil Protection Service does not preclude the services of the Federal Institute for Labour, Social Assistance and other support or remuneration from public funds. (8) The institutions of the Civil Protection Units shall reimburse their helpers for the necessary expenses.

- (9) Workers within the meaning of these provisions are manual workers and employees and those employed for their vocational training.

- (9) Workers within the meaning of these provisions shall be manual workers and employees and those employed in their vocational training; paragraphs 3, 4, 8 and the first sentence of paragraph 5 shall apply mutatis mutandis to officials and judges.

- Paragraphs 3, 4, and 8 and the first sentence of paragraph 5 shall apply mutatis mutandis to civil servants and judges. Part Three Hazards arising from installations and properties § 15 Obligations of operators of installations with special potential for danger (1) Operators of installations where the civil protection authority cannot rule out the possibility that the potential for danger present in them will result in serious health impairments or the death of a large number of people or damage to significant material assets outside the installation are obliged to provide the civil protection authority, upon request, with appropriate information to assess the effects of a potential release, including the demarcation of the hazard area.

- Third part Hazards caused by installations and properties § 15 Obligations of operators of installations with special risk potential (1) Operators of installations in which the Civil Protection Authority cannot rule out the possibility that a release of the potential danger present in them leads to serious health impairments or to the death of a large number of people or to the damage of significant material values outside the installation, are obliged to provide the Civil Protection Authority, upon request, with appropriate information for the assessment of the effects of a risk potential release, including the demarcation of the hazard area. The Civil Protection Authority may, after consulting the operator, have the information obtained examined at the operator's expense, while respecting operational and business secrets.

- The Civil Protection Authority may, after consulting the operator, examine the information received at the operator's expense, while respecting the operational and commercial secrets. (2) Operators of installations referred to in paragraph 1 where, following a mandatory assessment by the Civil Protection Authority, the risk potential may lead to serious health impairments or the death of a large number of people outside the installation, shall be obliged to assist the Civil Protection Authority in the preparation of civil protection and in the fight against disasters.

- 2. Operators of installations referred to in paragraph 1 where the risk potential may result in serious health damage or the death of a large number of people outside the installation, after a mandatory assessment by the Civil Protection Authority, shall be obliged to assist the Civil Protection Authority in the preparation of civil protection and in the fight against disasters. They shall in particular:

