# 5.

- (2) In the cases referred to in paragraphs 1, 2, 4 and 5, the irregularity may be fined up to EUR 5 000 and, in the cases referred to in paragraph 1 (3), a fine of up to EUR 25 000.

- (2) In the cases referred to in paragraph 1, 2, 4 and 5, the offence may be fined up to EUR 5 000 and, in the cases referred to in paragraph 1 (3), a fine of up to EUR 25 000. (3) The managing authority within the meaning of paragraph 36 (1) (1) of the Law on irregularity is the Civil Protection Authority.

- (3) The administrative authority within the meaning of § 36 para. 1 no. 1 of the Law on irregularity is the Civil Protection Authority. 1 § 31 Restriction of fundamental rights The fundamental rights of physical integrity (Article 2 para. 2 sentence 1 of the Basic Law and Article 16 para. 1 sentence 1 of the Constitution of the Free State of Saxony), freedom of persons (Article 2 para. 2 sentence 2 of the Basic Law and Article 16 para. 1 sentence 2 of the Constitution of the Free State of Saxony), freedom of assembly (Article 8 para. 2 of the Basic Law and Article 23 para. 2 of the Constitution of the Free State of Saxony), freedom of movement (Article 11 of the Basic Law), freedom of occupation (Article 12 of the Basic Law and Article 28 para. 1 and 3 of the Constitution of the Free State of Saxony), inviolability of housing (Article 13 of the Basic Law and Article 30 of the Constitution of the Free State of Saxony) and informational self-determination (Article 33 of the Constitution of the Free State of Saxony) can be restricted under this Act.

- 1 § 31 Restriction of fundamental rights The fundamental rights of physical integrity (Article 2 para. 2 sentence 1 of the Basic Law and Article 16 para. 1 sentence 1 of the Constitution of the Free State of Saxony), freedom of the person (Article 2 para. 2 sentence 2 of the Basic Law and Article 16 para. 1 sentence 2 of the Constitution of the Free State of Saxony), freedom of assembly (Article 8 para. 2 of the Basic Law and Article 23 para. 2 of the Constitution of the Free State of Saxony), freedom of movement (Article 11 of the Basic Law), freedom of occupation (Article 12 of the Basic Law and Article 28 para. 1 and 3 of the Constitution of the Free State of Saxony), inviolability of housing (Article 13 of the Basic Law and Article 30 of the Constitution of the Free State of Saxony) and informational self-determination (Article 33 of the Constitution of the Free State of Saxony) may be restricted under this Law.

- § 32 Administrative regulations The State Ministry of the Interior, in consultation with the participating ministries of state, shall issue the administrative regulations necessary for the implementation of this law after consultation of the local associations of the state. As far as the interests of those obliged to participate in civil protection, the private aid organizations (§ 10) and the commercial enterprises are concerned, their national organizations and the Landesfeuerwehrverband Sachsen are to be heard.

- To the extent that the interests of those obliged to participate in civil protection, the private aid organizations (§ 10) and the commercial enterprises are affected, their national organizations and the Landesfeuerwehrverband Sachsen are to be heard. § 33 Entry into force to top of page Marginal column Reference to Federal laws Finding point and systematic breakdown number SächsGVBl.

- § 33 Entry into force to top of page Marginal column Reference to federal laws Finding point and systematic breakdown number SächsGVBl. 1999 Nr. 6, p. 145 Fsn-Nr.: 28 Period of validity Version valid from: 1 January 2002 Version valid until: 1 January 2005 Print/Save HTML-Gesamtansicht Regelt als PDF Einzeldruck Hilfe Hilfe Hilfe zu Historische Versionen Questions and answers Accessibility Publisher Saxon State Chancellery Related portals Media service Publications Office24 FÖMISAX Funding database Newsletter Career portal EDAS Source: REVOSax https://www.

- 1999 Nr. 6, p. 145 Fsn-Nr.: 28 Period of validity Version valid from: 1 January 2002 Version valid until: 1 January 2005 Print/Save HTML-Gesamtansicht Regelung als PDF Einzeldruck Hilfe Hilfe Hilfe zu Historische Versionen Questions and answers Accessibility Publisher Saxon State Chancellery Related portals Media service Publications Office24 FÖMISAX Funding database Newsletter Career portal EDAS Source: REVOSax https://www. revosax.

- Revosax. saxen.

- Sachsen. de/vorschrift/3030-Saechsisches-Katastrophenschutzgesetz State of the

