# 5.006

- Leaflet for the fire brigades of Bavaria 3 Leaflet for the fire brigades of Bavaria Leaflet for the fire brigades of Bavaria Vegetation fires Vegetation fires The leaflet informs about forms and dangers of vegetarian fires. On this topic the technical equipment of the Bavarian fire brigades and their tactical and practical applications are explained.

- The technical equipment of the Bavarian fire brigades and their tactical and practical application possibilities are explained on this topic. Comprehensive safety instructions are presented as well as various operational and tactical measures and procedures.

- Comprehensive safety instructions are presented as well as various operational and tactical measures and procedures. Special tactical procedures, such as firefighting from the air, are pointed out.

- Special tactical procedures, such as fire fighting from the air, are mentioned. Aim of the leaflet For reasons of better readability, the leaflets of the state fire brigade schools do not contain gender-specific differences.

- Objective of the leaflet For reasons of better readability, the leaflets of the State fire brigade schools do not contain any gender-specific discrimination.In the sense of equal treatment, the corresponding terms apply in principle to all genders.

- In the sense of equal treatment, the corresponding terms apply in principle to all genders. The shortened language form has editorial reasons and does not include any evaluation.

- The shortened language form has editorial reasons and does not include any rating. Note: Image source Front page: skeeze; pixabay.

- Note: Image source Front page: skeeze; pixabay. com 5 Table of contents Table of contents

