# 9.

- SOURCE...................................................................................70 7 Vegetation fires destroy significant values each year and, in particular, severely disturb the community of forests.In addition, vegetation fires call into question the intangible services of nature for society, such as the protection and recreation function.

- In addition, vegetation fires call into question the intangible achievements of nature for society, such as the protection and recreation function. In addition to these damages, fires in nature are a major latent threat, especially to the forest and cultural landscape in Bavaria, since even the smallest fires can become big fires under unfavorable circumstances.

- In addition to this damage, fires in nature are a major latent threat, especially to the forest and cultural landscape in Bavaria, as even the smallest fires can become big fires under unfavorable circumstances. Thanks to the constantly improved training and equipment of Bavaria's feudal forces, it has been possible to avoid forest fires of catastrophic proportions.

- Thanks to the constantly improved training and equipment of the feu, Bavaria has managed to avoid forest fires of catastrophic proportions. However, the maintenance and further improvement of the high level of fire protection still remains one of the central tasks in the field of forest fire control.

- The preservation and further improvement of the high level of fire protection still remains one of the central tasks in the field of forest fire control. In the causes of vegetation fires it is noticeable that these are mainly triggered by humans.

- Among the causes of vegetation fires, it is noticeable that these are more or less caused by humans. Natural fires cause lightning or self-inflammation in bog fires are extremely rare.

- Natural fires, lightning or self-inflammation in bog fires, are extremely rare. The main causes are "negligence" and "fire foundation" alike.

- The main causes are "negligibility" and "fire foundation", and the education of the population should therefore be given a stronger role in preventive measures.

- The education of the population should therefore be given an increased role in the preventive measures.

