# 5.1	 Persönliche Schutzausrüstung

- The personal protective equipment of the Bavarian fire service is oriented towards the dangers that can affect the wearer of the protective clothing. The structure of the protective clothing is therefore subject to standards and specifications, which are defined by the statutory accident insurance funds on the basis of a risk assessment.

- The structure of the protective clothing is therefore subject to standards and specifications, which are defined by the statutory accident insurance funds on the basis of a risk assessment. To this end, fire protection clothing can generally be classified according to different application scenarios, on the basis of which performance levels to be fulfilled for the protective clothing are calculated.

- For this purpose, fire protection clothing can generally be classified according to different application scenarios, on the basis of which performance levels to be fulfilled for the protective clothing are calculated. Vegetation fires are fires in the outdoor area, which after the hazard assessment of the municipal accident insurance Bavaria demands for the fire service provider a basic equipment according to accident prevention regulations.

- Vegetation fires are fires in the outdoor area, which, after the hazard assessment of the municipal accident insurance Bavaria, requires a basic equipment for the fire service provider according to accident prevention regulations.The basic equipment is divided into the following equipment parts: z Firefighter's suit z Firefighter's helmet with neck protection z Firefighter's gloves z Firefighter's protective shoes In accordance with DGUV rule 105-049 § 14 (2) special personal protective equipment must be worn in case of special hazards.

- The basic equipment is divided into the following components: z Firefighter's suit z Firefighter's helmet with neck protection z Firefighter's gloves z Firefighter's shoes According to DGUV rule 105-049 § 14 (2) special personal protective equipment must be worn in case of special hazards. Furthermore, §16 of DGUV rule 105-049 states that personal protective equipment must be determined and used according to the expected hazards.

- Furthermore, §16 of the DGUV rule 105-049 states that the personal protective equipment is to be determined and used according to the expected hazards. It is also stipulated that the respective responsible manager orders the protective equipment to be used and monitors its use.

- In addition, it is specified that the responsible manager orders the protection equipment to be used and monitors its use. To this end, it can be pointed out that, especially at hot temperatures, the responsible unit leader can grant or even arrange a so-called "Marschlerleichterung" depending on the activity and prevailing risk.

- For this purpose it can be pointed out that, especially at hot temperatures, the responsible leader of the unit can grant a so-called "Marschlerleichteerung" depending on the activity and the prevailing risk or even arrange it. With regard to the assignment and the associated risk, attention must be paid to various dangers, which can have an effect on the operational force, especially in the case of vegetation fires.

- With regard to the assignment and the associated Ri-Sikos, attention must be paid to various dangers that can affect the operational force especially in the case of vegetation fires. These include, for example, the flame height, sparking, heat action, type of growth, mechanical forces, etc.. 5 EQUIPMENT FOR VEGETABLE BRANDBECFAUTION Fig. 12 Basic equipment 17 The basic equipment of the Bavarian fire brigades, especially with a single-layer fire-fighting suit, for example in the Bavaria-2000 version, as shown in the picture, seems quite appropriate.

- This includes, for example, the flame height, sparking, heat exposure, type of growth, mechanical forces, etc.. 5 EQUIPMENT FOR VEGETABLE BRANDBECFAUTION Fig. 12 Basic equipment 17 The basic equipment of the Bavarian fire brigades, especially with a single-layer fire-fighting suit, for example in the version Bavaria-2000, as shown in the picture, seems quite appropriate for the vegetation fire fighting. Despite all this, it has proved useful to supplement the basic equipment with various equipment items or to pay attention to special properties in the selection.

- In spite of all this, it has proved useful to supplement the basic equipment with various equipment items or to pay attention to special characteristics when selecting them. The following points are to be understood as clues and are based on the often very long duration of vegetarian fire operations, in the case of mostly stressful weather in rough terrain.

- The following points are to be understood as clues and are based on the often very long duration of vegetative fire operations, in the case of mostly stressful weather in rough terrain. The listed special equipment and application instructions increase the protection of the forces: z Single-layer firefighter suit according to standard with adjustable arm and leg ends (possibly close-fitting) as well as high-closing collar.

- The specified special equipment and application instructions increase the protection of the forces: z Single-layer fire suit according to standard with adjustable arm and leg closures (as close as possible) as well as high closing collar. On a narrow-fitting, the body sweat forwarding underlayer, should not be omitted even at high outside temperatures z Fire safety shoes in the form of lace-up boots for forest-areas and fields z After hazard assessment, different footwear for fire fighting in the mountains z Fire protection hood or Holland cloth as protection open skin parts z Special helmets for forest and area fire control according to European standard can be useful for units with frequent vegetation.

- A narrow-fitting, body-welding sub-layer should not be omitted even at high outside temperatures z Fire safety shoes in the form of lace-up boots for forests and fields z After hazard assessment, different footwear for fire fighting in mountains z Fire cover or Holland cloth as protection of open skin parts z Special helmets for forest and surface fire control according to European standard can be useful for units with frequent vegetation. In principle, the fire helmet (according to DIN EN 443) offers sufficient protection with neck protection.

- In principle, the fire helmet (according to DIN EN 443) offers sufficient protection with neck protection. z Dust protection masks (FFP2 or FFP3, each with an external valve) for protection against particles.

- z As close as possible, heat-resistant protective glasses around the eyes to protect against spark flight, smoke and heat-radiation z Dust protection masks (FFP2 or FFP3, each with external valve) for protection against particles. Depending on the tactical procedure, the use of A2B2E2K2-P3 filters may also be necessary.

- Depending on the tactical approach, the use of A2B2E2K2-P3 filters may also be necessary. However, the detection of respiratory resistance according to G 26.2 and a device instruction is necessary z carbon monoxide warning device for forces whose use is necessary for a short period of time in fire smoke z signal whistle for warning of hazards z thermal imaging camera Fig. 13 and 14 Source: UVEX AR的 BEITS PROTECTION GmbH 18 The use of heavy fire protection clothing (HuPF 1, HuPF 4, DIN EN 469) is usually neither useful nor necessary in the fight against vegetation fire, especially at warm temperatures.

- For this purpose, however, the proof of respiratory resistance according to G 26.2 and a device instruction is necessary z Carbon monoxide warning device for forces whose use is necessary for a short time in fire smoke z Signal pipe for warning dangers z Thermal imaging camera Fig. 13 and 14 Source: UVEX AR的 BEITS PROTECTION GmbH 18 The use of heavy fire protection clothing (HuPF 1, HuPF 4, DIN EN 469) is usually neither useful nor necessary in the fight against vegetation fire, especially at warm temperatures. The forces involved are made more difficult by the weight and the heat congestion caused by the construction of the material as well as the increased sweating.

- The forces involved are made more difficult by the weight and heat congestion caused by the construction of the material, as well as the increased sweating, which makes the work more difficult. Consequently, the forces involved reach their physical limits of stress more quickly.

