# 7.4

- Air work on fire, accident and disaster relief The key factor for the preventive use of aircraft is the WBI forest fire hazard index, which describes the meteorological potential for the risk of forest fire.

- This describes the meteorological potential for the danger of forest fire. It indicates the danger in 5 danger levels.

- It shows the danger in 5 levels of danger. In Bavaria from a certain level of danger observation flights are ordered by the governments.

- In Bavaria, observation flights from a certain level of danger are ordered by the governments. Partner here is the flight readiness of the air rescue squadron Bayern e.

- The partner here is the flight readiness of the air rescue squadron Bayern e. V., which provides pilots and aircraft.

- V., which sets pilots and aircraft. In this way fires can be detected already in the development phase.

- In this way fires can be detected already in the development phase. After the discovery, the forces on the ground can be guided by trained forces in the aircraft (air observers).

- After the discovery, the forces on the ground can be steered by trained forces in the aircraft (air observers). Even in existing operations, the mission management on the ground can receive important information for the situation assessment by observation flights.

- Even in the case of already existing operations, the operational management on the ground can receive important information for the situation assessment by observation flights. Extinguishing aircraft are not used in Germany and are also not available.

- Extinguishing aircraft are not used in Germany and are not available either. Direct firefighting from the air takes place in all of Germany by helicopter.

- Direct firefighting from the air takes place all over Germany by helicopter. In addition, there are activities that can be attributed to indirect firefighting from the air.

- In addition, there are activities that can be assigned to indirect firefighting from the air. For the complex interaction between fire brigade and helicopter crew, there are so-called flight assistance groups, especially in Bavaria.

- There are so-called flight assistance groups especially for the complex interaction between fire brigade and helicopter crew in Bavaria. At strategically distributed locations you can access state- procured extinguishing water outer load containers with different capacity as well as material and activities with helicopters.

- At strategically distributed locations, water outer load containers with different capacity and material and activities with helicopters can be accessed on state- procured extinguishing. Fig. 40 Flight helpers SFS-W 51

