# 7.7

- Information for managers Tasks of the operational management: z Establishment of an approximate and convenient location z Provision of map material z Construction and operation of radio and telecommunications connections z Location determination and assessment of the location z Creation of a location map z Use of explorers, e.g. also with rotary ladders z Use of detectors (bike, motorcycle) z Notification and inclusion of other technical authorities (e.g. local forest staff) as well as meteorologists z Own supply z Documentation z Provision of the forces and means required for the use z Creation and updating of a force overview z Possible stratification plans Creating schematics , conduct of the forces by e.g. ongoing investigation of the situation z Assessment of the situation z Estimating the required supply (e.g. catering, operating materials, accommodation) z Assessment of the effectiveness of the initiated deployment measures Planning and continuation of the future deployment development: z Collection of weather reports z Evaluating the damage development z Evaluating the required discharge forces z Estimating the required supply (e.g.

- Creating shift plans Conducting the forces by e.g. investigating the situation e.g. assessing the situation e.g. evaluating the development of damage e.g. estimating the required replacement forces e.g. estimating the required supply (e.g. catering, operating materials, accommodation) e.g. estimating the required replacement vehicles etc. 65 The regulations of the Bavarian Fire Brigade Act (BayFwG), the regulations for the execution of the Bavarian Fire Brigade Act (AVBayFwG) and the Bavarian Civil Protection Act (BayKSG) apply for the management of fire brigade operations in vegetation fires.

- According to Art. 18 para. 2 sentence 1 BayFwG, the operational management is primarily the commanding officer of the volunteers or the compulsory fire brigade of the site of damage.

- 18 para. 2 sentence 1 BayFwG is primarily responsible for the commanding of the volunteers or the compulsory fire brigade of the site of damage. In accordance with § 16 para. 6 AVBayFwG, the commanding officer determines the focus of the defense measures in consultation with the forestry authority (competent forest office, also in the private forest).

- According to § 16 para. 6 AVBayFwG, the operator determines the focus of the defense measures in consultation with the forest authority (competent forest office, also in the private forest).

- According to Art. 15 BayKSG, even in the event of damage events below the disaster threshold, a local operational officer previously designated by the district administration authority can take over the operational management only if this significantly facilitates the orderly interaction of the operational forces at the site.

- 15 BayKSG can also take over operational management in the event of damage events below the disaster threshold by a Local Operations Officer previously designated by the County Administration, only if this significantly facilitates the orderly interaction of the forces at the site. These persons may, if they have been given the authority to exercise local operations management before an order by the County Administration.

- These persons may, if they have been given the power to operate the local operations management before an appointment by the county administration authority, and the designated persons shall be obliged to bring the decision of the county administration authority into effect immediately.

- The designated persons shall be obliged to take the decision of the county administration authority without delay.The overall management authority of the disaster operation shall be the head of the relevant civil protection authority.

- The Head of the relevant Civil Protection Authority is responsible for the overall management of the disaster response. He uses the Civil Protection Management Group (FüGK).

- He uses the management group Civil Protection (FüGK). The technical tactical leadership at the site of damage (at the site of damage) is transferred in principle to a predetermined local operations manager (ÖEL) (Art.

- The technical tactical guidance at the site of damage (at the site of damage) is transferred in principle to a predetermined local operations manager (ÖEL) (Art. 6 or Art.

- 6 or Article 15 BayKSG).

- 15 BayKSG). It acts on behalf of the Civil Protection Authority and is endowed with the necessary powers for the area of the Office.

- It acts on behalf of the Civil Protection Authority and is equipped with the necessary powers for the area of the Civil Protection Authority. If a vegetation fire occurs, which can be expected the need for coordination of the operations and the forces under uniform management by the Civil Protection Authority, the Integrated Control Centre alarms the local operational officer designated by the Civil Protection Authority in advance and the contact person of the Civil Protection Leadership Group.

- If a vegetation fire occurs, which can be expected to result in the need for coordination of the operations and the forces under uniform management by the Civil Protection Authority, the Integrated Control Centre shall alert the Local Operations Officer designated by the Civil Protection Authority in advance and the contact person of the Civil Protection Management Group. The Local Operations Officer designated in advance shall immediately enter the damage area.

- If, following an assessment of the situation, he concludes that coordination of the operations and the forces on the ground can only be ensured under the same direction by the Civil Protection Agency, he shall inform the contact person FüGK and recommend that the operations management be taken over or confirmed as Local Operations Officer (ÖEL).

- If, after assessing the situation, he concludes that coordination of the operations and the forces on the ground can only be ensured under the same direction by the Civil Protection Authority, he informs the contact person FüGK and recommends that he take over the operations management or confirm him as Local Operations Manager (ÖEL). If the contact person FüGK – within the limits of the powers granted to him by his instructions – fulfils this recommendation to take over the disaster operations management, he entrusts the previously designated Local Operations Manager with the local operations management (local operations management).

- If the contact person FüGK – within the limits of the powers granted to him in his instructions – fulfils this recommendation to take over the disaster response management, he entrusts the previously designated local operations manager with the operational management on the ground (local operations management).

- If this assignment is carried out according to Article 6 BayKSG, the contact person FÜGK at this 66 moment at the same time determined the disaster.

- 6 BayKSG, as the contact person FÜGK has at this 66 moment simultaneously determined the disaster case. The ÖEL has the same powers as the disaster response management for the immediate area of the damage area from this point on.

- From this point on, the ÖEL has the same powers as the disaster response management for the immediate area of the damage area, and is thus responsible for all the forces involved.

- In this way, he is responsible for all the forces involved. ÖEL draws on a member of the responsible forest administration as liaison person for its support/technical advice.

- For its support/advice, the ÖEL draws on a member of the responsible forest administration as liaison person. In addition, the ÖEL can use the support group Local Operations Management (UG-ÖEL) as well as various technical advisors (air workers, meteorologists, forest offices, etc.) to support it.

- In addition, the ÖEL can use the support group Local Operations Management (UG-ÖEL) as well as various technical advisors (airmen, meteorologists, forest offices, etc.) to support it. 67 NOTICES 68 8 CONTINUING AND DISTRIBUTIVE INSTRUMENTS Bavarian Fire Brigade Act (BayFwG) https://t1p.

- 67 NOTES 68 8 CONTINUING AND RELIEFING INSTRUCTIONS Bavarian Fire Brigade Act (BayFwG) https://t1p. de/1d29 Ordinance on the implementation of the Bay.

- de/1d29 Ordinance implementing the Bay Fire Law (AVBayFwG) https://t1p.

- Fire Protection Act (AVBayFwG) https://t1p. de/ugjd § 16 Operations management in special cases Bavarian Civil Protection Act (BayKSG) https://t1p.

- de/ugjd § 16 Operations management in special cases Bavarian Civil Protection Act (BayKSG) https://t1p. de/yuvk Bavarian Forest Act (BayWaldG) as published on 22 July 2005 https://t1p.

- de/yuvk Bavarian Forest Act (BayWaldG) as published on 22 July 2005 https://t1p. de/v02l Criminal Code (StGB) https://t1p.

- de/v02l Criminal Code (StGB) https://t1p. de/v87d § 306 arson § 306a serious arson § 306b particularly serious arson § 306c arson with death consequence § 306d negligent arson § 306e active remorse § 306f Constructing a arson 69 directive on forest fire prevention (BayVwV) https://t1p.

- de/v87d § 306 arson § 306a heavy arson § 306b particularly severe arson § 306c arson with death consequence § 306d negligent arson § 306e active repentance § 306f Incorporating a fire trial 69 Directive on forest fire prevention (BayVwV) https://t1p. de/tl0o Ordinance on the prevention of fires (BayVVB) https://t1p.

- de/tl0o Regulation on the prevention of fires (BayVVB) https://t1p. de/trnj Regulation on the disposal of plant waste other than semi-approved disposal plants (BayPflAbfV) https://t1p.

- de/trnj Regulation on the disposal of plant waste other than semi-approved disposal facilities (BayPflAbfV) https://t1p. de/kfst Broadcasting announcements (BayVwV) https://t1p.

- en/kfst announcements about the radio (BayVwV) https://t1p. de/jctv 70 9 SOURCE NOTE z DGUV Rule 105-49 Firefighters z DGUV Information 205-014 – Selection of personal protection and equipment for firefighters z DGUV Information 205-020 – Firefighter's clothing – Tips for buyers and users z DGUV Information 205-031 – Additional equipment for personal firefighter's protective equipment z Vegetative fire fighting for municipal firefighters – Presentation, @fire, international disaster protection Deutsch-land e.

- en/jctv 70 9 SOURCE z DGUV Rule 105-49 Firefighters z DGUV Information 205-014 – Selection of personal protection , equipment for firefighters z DGUV Information 205-020 – Firefighter clothing – Tips for buyers and users z DGUV Information 205-031 – Additional equipment for firefighters z Vegetation firefighting for municipal firefighters – Presentation, @fire, international civil protection Deutsch-Land e. V., 2011 z Vegetation fire fighting for municipal firefighters – Handout, @fire, international civil protection Deutschland e. V.

- V., 2011 z Vegetation firefighting for municipal fire brigades – Handout, @fire, international civil protection Germany e. V., 2011 z Cimolino, Dr., Ulrich; Vegetation fire fighting, ecomed-storck GmbH, 2015 z Proper approach for forest fires and land fires, special issue Fire Brigade Magazine, 01/2016 z DFV-Fachrecommendation „Sicherheit und Taktaktur im Waldbrandbeteilung-Z Merkblatt: 5.002, Löschmittel & Löschverfahren, Staatliche Feuerwehrschulen Bayern, 2004 z Merkblatt: 5.008, Wasserförderförder über langen Hläschstrecke, Staatliche Feuerwehrschulen Bayern z Merkblatt: 6.010, Guide for the cooperation of fire brigade and aircraft operators in Bavaria, Staatliche Feuerwehrschulen Bayern z Merkblatt: 9.001, Spokefunk, Staatliche Feuerwehrschulen Bayern z Firefighter-Service regulations 800 – Information and communication technology in use (FwDV 800) z Environmental friendly use of fire extinguishing foams, Bayer.

- V., 2011 z Cimolino, Dr., Ulrich; Vegetation firefighting, comed to torck GmbH, 2015 z Proper approach to forest fires and land fires, special issue Fire Brigade Magazine, 01/2016 z DFV-Fachsempfehlung "Sicherheit und Taktaktur im Waldbrandeinsatz-Z Merkblatt: 5.002, Löschmittel & Löschverfahren, Staatliche Feuerwehrschulen Bayern, 2004 z Merkblatt: 5.008, Wasserförderung über länge Hosestrecke, Staatliche Feuerwehrschulen Bayern z Merkblatt: 6.010, Leitung für die Zusammenarbeit von Feuerwehrung und Luftfahrzeugbetrieben in Bayern, Staatliche Feuerwehrschulen Bayern z Merkblatt: 9.001, Sprachfunk, Staatliche Feuerwehrschulen Bayern z Fire Brigade Service regulations 800 – Information and communication technology in use (FwDV 800) z Environmentally use of fire extinguishing foams, Bayer State Ministry of the Interior, Bayer.

- State Ministry of the Interior, Bayer. State Ministry of Environment and Consumer Protection, 2018 Do you want to learn more about the work of the Bavarian State Government?

- State Ministry for Environment and Consumer Protection, 2018 Do you want to learn more about the work of the Bavarian State Government? BAYERN 的 DIRECT is your direct link to the Bavarian State Government.

- BAYERN 的 DIRECT is your direct line to the Bavarian State Government. Call 089 12 22 20 or send an e-mail to direct@bayern.

- Call 089 12 22 20 or send an e-mail to direct@bayern. en You will receive information material and brochures, information on current topics and internet sources as well as information on authorities, competent authorities and contact partners at the Bavarian State Government.

- You will receive information material and brochures, information on current topics and internet sources as well as information on authorities, competent authorities and contact partners at the Bavarian State Government. Note: This publication is published as part of the public relations work of the Bavarian State Government.

- Note: This document is published in the context of the public relations work of the Bavarian State Government. It may not be used by parties or by campaigners or electoral workers for the purpose of election advertising within the period of five months prior to an election.

- It may not be used for election advertising by parties or by campaigners or electoral helpers for the period of five months prior to an election. This applies to state, Bundestag, municipal and European elections.

- This applies to state, Bundestag, municipal and European elections. During this time, the distribution to election events, to information stands of the parties as well as the insertion, printing and affixing of party-political information or advertising material is abusive.

- During this time, the distribution to election events, to information stands of the parties as well as the insertion, printing and affixing of party political information or advertising material is abusive. The disclosure to third parties for the purpose of election advertising is also prohibited.

- The document must not be used in a way that could be understood as a party to the state government in favour of individual political groups, even without a temporal reference to an upcoming election.

- Even without reference to a forthcoming election, the document may not be used in a way that could be understood as a party to the government's political groupings. The parties are allowed to use the document to inform their own members.

- The parties are allowed to use the printed material to inform their own members. IMPRESSUM Publisher: "Staatliche Feuerwehrschule Würzburg, Weißenburgstr.

- IMPRESSUM Publisher: 的Staatliche Feuerwehrschule Würzburg, Weißenburgstr. 60, 97082 Würzburg Participation: 的Bayerisches Staatsministerium des Inneren, für Sport und Integration, 的Staatliche Feuerwehrschule Geretsried, Staatliche Feuerwehrschule Regensburg, Staatliche Feuerwehrschule Würzburg, Landesfeuerwehrverband Bayern e.

- 60, 97082 Würzburg Participation: Bavarian State Ministry of the Interior, for Sports and Integration, German State Fire School Geretsried, German State Fire School Regensburg, German State Fire School Würzburg, Bavarian State Fire Brigade Association Design: German State Fire School Würzburg, Faculty of Education and Learning Internet: Version 4.1 fire brigade-learnable.

- V. Design: Staatliche Feuerwehrschule Würzburg, Fachbereich Lehr- und Lernmittel Internet: Version 4.1 fire brigade-learnable. bayern costs depending on the network operator

