# 25.06.25, 21:34

- Forest fires: Kronenfiren and Stammbränden - waldwissen. net page 1 of 4 https://www.

- Page 1 of 4 https://www.waldwissen.

- waldwissen. net/de/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/waldbrandarten Redaktion Forstliche Versuchs- und Forschungsanstalt Baden-Württemberg URL: /de/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/waldbrandarten Waldbrandarten: Von Kronenfeuern und Stammbranden There are four types of forest fires: ground fire, full fire, moor fires and parent fires.

- net/de/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/waldbrandarten Redaktion Forstliche Versuchs- und Forschungsanstalt Baden-Württemberg URL: /de/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/waldbrandarten Waldbrandarten: Von Kronenfeuern und Stammbranden There are four types of forest fires: ground fires, full fires, moor fires and parent fires. In the article you will learn everything about the different types of fires in the open air and in the forest.

- In the article you will learn all about the different types of fires in the open air and in the forest. Forest fires differ in how they arise and what distinguishes them.

- Forest fires differ in how they arise and what distinguishes them. One distinguishes ground and full fires, moor and trunk fires.

- You can distinguish ground and full fires, bog and trunk fires. In the article you will learn everything about the form of fires in the open air and in the forest.

- In the article you will learn everything about the form of fires in the open air and in the forest. Special forms such as hang fires and fires on munitions-loaded areas are explained in the article Strategies of forest fire control.

- Special forms such as hang fires and fires on munitions-loaded areas are explained in the article Strategies of forest fire control. Contents Typical form of forest fires Fig. 1: Typical form of a forest fire.

- Contents Typical form of forest fires Fig. 1: Typical form of a forest fire. (Skizze: Own representation according to king) Forest fires and surface fires typically have the form of an approximate ellipse (Fig. 1).

- (Skizze: Own representation according to king) Forest and surface fires typically have the shape of an approximate ellipse (Fig. 1). The fire herds can only be found in the area of the hem of this ellipse.

- The fire stoves can only be found in the area of the hem of this ellipse. To the right and left of the wind direction are the fire flanks, which spread much more slowly than the so-called fire front or fire top located in the wind direction.

- To the right and to the left of the wind direction are the fire flanks, which spread much slower than the so-called fire front or fire top located in the wind direction. If the wind turns, the flanks can quickly become the fire front.

- If the wind turns, the flanks can quickly become the fire front. Typical form of forest fires Ground fire (or wildfire) Full fire (or crown fire) Earth or moor fire Stammbrand 25.06.25, 21:34 Forest fire types: Of crown fires and trunk fires - knowledge of the forest.

- Typical form of forest fires Ground fire (or wildfire) Full fire (or crown fire) Ground fire or bog fire Stammbrand 25.06.25, 21:34 Forest fires: Of crown fires and trunk fires - forest knowledge. net page 2 of 4 https://www.

- Page 2 of 4 https://www.waldwissen.

- waldwissen. net/de/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/waldbrandarten There is usually a 20-50 cm wide strip on the edge of the fire area.

- net/en/waldwirtschaft/sähsmanagement/waldbrand/waldbrandarten There is usually a 20-50 cm wide strip on the edge of the fire area. Only with a large padding layer can this strip extend to a width of one to two meters.

- Only with a large padding can this strip expand to a width of one to two meters. Behind the fire hem burn or sulk individual pieces of wood, sticks or humus upholstery.

- Behind the fire hem, individual pieces of wood, sticks or humus upholstery burn or revel. However, it is quite possible to enter such a surface.

- However, it is quite possible to enter such an area. A fire can spread wide within one hour 200 to 1200 m (sometimes up to 2000 m).

- A fire can spread wide within an hour 200 to 1200 m (sometimes up to 2000 m). Ground fire (or wildfire) The ground fire affects vegetation close to the ground and dead material (Fig. 2).

- Ground fire (or wildfire) The ground fire affects vegetation close to the ground and dead material (Fig. 2). The fire runs in the initial stage to all sides and then strengthens towards the highest oxygen supply.

- The fire runs on all sides in the initial stage and then strengthens towards the highest oxygen supply. The smoke is light grey colored due to the nature of the combustible material.

- The smoke is coloured light grey due to the nature of the combustible material. This is a clear sign for observers that it is a floor fire.

- This is a clear sign for observers that it is a ground fire. Forest fire statistics show that 75% of forest fires in Germany remain ground fire and do not extend to full fires.

- Forest fire statistics show that 75% of forest fires in Germany remain ground fire and do not extend to full fires.The intensity of the ground fire depends on the following factors: These characteristics characterise a ground fire: Full fire (or crown fire) Full fires always arise from ground fires when the fire reaches the upper part of the trees via dead wood, dry bark or low-hanging branches.

- The intensity of the ground fire depends on the following factors: These characteristics characterise a ground fire: Full fire (or crown fire) Full fire always arises from ground fires when the fire reaches the upper part of the trees via dead wood, dry bark or deep-hanging branches. In the crown area, there is still a lot of oxygen due to low decomposition.

- There is still a lot of oxygen in the crown area due to low decomposition. Thus the fire is nourished and the spread to the full fire happens rapidly.

- Thus the fire is nourished and the spread to the full fire takes place rapidly. The smoke of a full fire is dark grey to black due to densely needled or leafy and green fuel.

- The smoke of a full fire is dark grey to black due to densely needled or leafy and green fuel. A full fire consumes a lot of oxygen, this consumption leads to a strong air flow in the near-floor area.

- A full fire consumes a lot of oxygen, this consumption leads to a strong draught in the near-bottom area. This "self-made" wind ensures that the fire spreads quickly to all sides.

- This "self-made" wind makes sure that the fire spreads quickly to all sides. Due to the severe decomposition, the actual fire front is difficult to locate.

- The characteristics of a full fire are the following: earth or bog fire bearing height/volume, moisture content of the fuel and the floor covering (needle, foliage, cones,...) prevailing wind speed temperature and relative humidity of the air layer near the ground terrain formation The fire hem is a maximum of 1-2 m wide.

- The characteristics of a full fire are the following: earth or bog fire bearing height/volume, moisture content of the fuel and floor covering (needle, foliage spread, cones,...) prevailing wind speed temperature and relative humidity of the ground-level air layer terrain shaping The fire hem is maximum 1-2 m wide. The flame length is maximum 2 m. The propagation or running speed is on average 500 m/h and maximum 1200 m/h.

- The flame length is not more than 2 m. The propagation or running speed is on average 500 m/h and maximum 1200 m/h. Fire som: up to several meters wide Flame length: depending on the tree population, thermic and slope position up to 50 m Spread or running speed: maximum 1800 m/h but usually around 500 m/h; for large fires of 50 ha or more, a spread of 100 ha/h can be expected.

- Fire hem: up to several meters wide Flame length: depending on the tree population, thermics and slope up to 50 m Spreading or running speed: maximum 1800 m/h but usually around 500 m/h; in large fires from 50 ha and above, a spread of 100 ha/h can be expected. At wind speeds above 10 m/s, the mop fire can precede the ground fire of the full fire by up to 50 m in the wind: Through these flying fires, new fires and fires can arise.

- At wind speeds of more than 10 m/s, the top fire can precipitate the ground fire of the full fire by up to 50 m in the wind: Through these flying fires new own fires and fires can arise. Fig. 2: Ground fire.

- Fig. 2: Ground fire. (Photo: FVA/Kaulfuss) Fig. 3: Full fire.

- (Photo: FVA/Kaulfuß) Fig. 3: Full fire. (Photo: Bundesforstbetrieb Oder- Havel-Spree) 25.06.25, 21:34 Types of forest fire: Of crown fires and tribal fires - forest knowledge.

- (Photo: Bundesforstbetrieb Oder- Havel-Spree) 25.06.25, 21:34 Forest fires: Kronenfiren and Stammbränden - waldwissen. net page 3 of 4 https://www.

- Page 3 of 4 https://www.waldwissen.

- waldwissen. net/de/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/waldbrandarten Fig. 4: Moorbrand.

- net/en/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/waldbrandarten Fig. 4: Moor fire. (Skizze: Own representation, changed according to Heber Longás/ Elpaís) Moor fires (Fig. 4) occur relatively rarely and mostly only in the case of long-lasting droughts.

- (Skizze: Own representation, changed according to Heber Longás/ Elpaís) Moor fires (Fig. 4) occur relatively rarely and mostly only in the case of long-lasting droughts. It is difficult to locate the hem of a bog fire, since the fire usually takes place in the underbody of the bog and the smoke rarely rises in a vertical line from the ground.

- It is difficult to locate the hem of a moor fire, as the fire usually takes place in the underbody of the moor and the smoke rarely rises in a vertical line from the ground. If a moor fire is not extinguished, it may be that it is glimmering for months without any significant smoke development indicating a fire.

- In case of non-extinguishing of a bog fire, it may be that it is glimmering for months without any significant smoke development indicating a fire. Also, these underground fires can survive an unrecognized winter break and only raise awareness during the growing season.

- These underground fires can also survive an unrecognized winter break and only raise awareness during the growing season. The running speed is very slow and is maximum 1000 m/24 h. Nevertheless, moor fires require long-lasting and permanent control and observation.

- The running speed is very slow and is a maximum of 1000 m/24 h. Nevertheless, bog fires require long-lasting and permanent control and observation. Here, the risk of burglary due to underground cavities should not be overlooked.

- The risk of burglary due to underground cavities should not be overlooked. Stammbrand Stammbrande usually arises from lightning or banging bodies especially on New Year's Eve (Fig. 5).

- Stammbrand Stammbrande usually arises from lightning or banging bodies especially on New Year's Eve (Fig. 5). Therefore, these fires are extremely rare and on average only account for 2% of all German fires.

- Therefore, these fires are extremely rare and make up on average only 2% of the total German fire. Mostly the bark or hollow trees burn.

- The bark or hollow trees usually burn. A root fire can cause a ground fire if the floor covering at the base is inflamed in the event of dryness.

- A ground fire can arise from a regular fire if the floor covering at the base is inflamed in the event of drought. Literature Guide Forest Crisis Management Back to the main page of the guide Forest Crisis Management: Overview of the various collections of topics Back to the article overview in the: Themensammlung Waldbrand More on forest knowledge.

- Literature Guide for Forest Crisis Management Back to the main page of the Guide for Forest Crisis Management: Overview of the various collections of topics Back to the article overview in the: Themensammlung Waldbrand More on waldwissen. net König, H.-C. (2007): Waldbrandschutz Kompendium für Forst und Feuerwehr.

- net König, H.-C. (2007): Waldbrandschutz Kompendium für Forst und Feuerwehr.

- Edited by M. Bessel, Fachverlag Matthias Grimm, Berlin Südmersen, J. et al.

- M. Bessel, Fachverlag Matthias Grimm, Berlin Südmersen, J. et al. (2008): Wald- und Flängebrandbeführung; 1.

- (2008): Forest and land fire control; 1st edition.

- Edition. ecomed Sicherheit, Verlagsgruppe Hüthig, Jehle Rehm GmbH A new method warns against forest fire (/en/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/waldbrand-fruehbekennung) The innovative instrument FireLess2 informs Förster and firefighters online about how it is ordered for moisture in the forest floor and how it changes.

- ecomed Sicherheit, Verlagsgruppe Hüthig, Jehle Rehm GmbH A new method warns against forest fire (/en/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/waldbrand-fruehbekennung) The innovative instrument FireLess2 informs Förster and firefighters online about how the moisture in the forest floor is ordered and how it changes.

- The collection Waldbrand (/de/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/themensammlung-waldbrand) Forest fires in Central Europe are usually caused by negligent action, only rarely in a natural way.

- Themensammlung Waldbrand (/de/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/themensammlung-waldbrand) Forest fires in Central Europe are mostly caused by negligent action, rarely in a natural way.

- This results in major damage every year throughout Europe. The forest fire collection informs, among other things, about forecasting, prevention and fight against forest fires.

- The Waldbrand collection informs among other things about prognosis, prevention and fight against forest fires. 25.06.25, 21:34 Waldbrandarten: Von Kronenfiren und Stammbränden - waldwissen.

- 25.06.25, 21:34 Forest fires: Kronenfiren and Stammbränden - waldwissen. net page 4 of 4 https://www.

- Page 4 of 4 https://www.waldwissen.

- waldwissen. net/de/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/waldbrandarten Document info Authors Katrin Dännart Editors Forstliche Versuchs- und Forschungsanstalt Baden-Württemberg (/en/we-ueber-uns/redaktion-fva) Contact Network Forstliches Risiko- und Krisenmanagement Forstliches Versuchs- und Forschungsanstalt Baden-Württemberg Forstökonomie und Management Wonnhaldestraße 4 79100 Freiburg Tel: +49 761 4018 231 Fax: +49 761 4018 333 E-Mail (mailto:fva@waldwissen.

- net/en/waldwirtschaft/schädenmanagement/waldbrand/waldbrandarten Document info Authors Katrin Dännart Editors Forestry Research and Research Institute Baden-Württemberg (/en/wir-ueber-uns/redaktion-fva) Contact Network Forest Risk and Crisis Management Forest Research and Research Institute Baden-Württemberg Forestry Economics and Management Wonnhaldestraße 4 79100 Freiburg Tel: +49 761 4018 231 Fax: +49 761 4018 333 E-mail (mailto:fva@waldwissen. net) Weblink (https://forstliches-Riskmanagement.

- net) Weblink (https://forest risk management. de/) Original article Danish Katrin (2015): Forest fire species: Of crown fires and tribal fires.

- de/) Original article Danish Katrin (2015): Forest fire species: Of crown fires and tribal fires. http://www.

- http://www.waldwissen.

- waldwissen.net (http://www.waldwissen.net).

- net (http://www.waldwissen.

- , 08.04.2016.

- net) , 08.04.2016. Online version

