# 3 | 2024

- BBK. Act together.

- Act together, live safely.

- Civil protection Forest and forest and vegetation fire Vegetation fire BBK POPULATION PROTECTION 3 的 2024 的 EDITORIAL Dear readers, the Federal Office for Civil Protection and Disaster Assistance (BBK) has been working for years on the question of how climate change affects civil protection.

- Population protection Forest and forest and vegetation fire Vegetation fire BBK POPULATION PROTECTION 3

- What did not seem as long ago as a somewhat nerdi-geer edge area, has been the focus of all the authorities and organizations affected by it since the high-waste event of Rhineland-Palatinate and North Rhine-Westphalia in the summer of 2021 at the latest. A few weeks ago, the association for the promotion of the Brandschut-zes e.

- A few weeks ago, the association for the promotion of the branding zes e. V. (vfdb) published a position paper that addresses not only floods, but also other events to which climate change stimulates: such as vegetarian and forest fires, which have increased sharply in recent years.

- V. (vfdb) publishes a position paper addressing not only floods, but also other events that climate change can stimulate: such as vegetarian and forest fires, which have increased sharply in recent years. vfdb calls for training, better equipment, optimized management structures and, last but not least, strengthening the capacity of the population to act.

- The vfdb calls for training adapted to the needs, better equipment, optimized management structures and, last but not least, the strengthening of the capacity of the population to act. The position paper concludes with the call "Learning from mistakes" – a goal that is now a continuous credo in view of the optimized adaptability of our structures.

- The position paper concludes with the call "Learning from mistakes" – a goal that is now a continuous credo in view of the optimized adaptability of our structures. The German Fire Brigade Association (DFV) has been working in a working group on forest fire since 2006 and has published various technical recommendations.

- The German Fire Brigade Association (DFV) has been working in a working group on forest fire since 2006 and has published various technical recommendations. The DFV is also one of the reminders on this topic: neither in dynamic damage situations itself nor in special locations such as vegetation fire there were uniform plans.

- The DFV is also one of the admonitions on this topic: neither in dynamic damage situations in themselves nor in special situations such as the vegetation fire did there exist uniform plans. The DFV also complains that there is neither a coordinated tactic nor training concept.

- The DFV also criticises the fact that there is neither a coordinated tactic nor training concept. Nevertheless, a lot has happened.

- Nevertheless, a lot has happened. Since 2019, the Federal-Country Working Group on National Forest Fire Protection of the Working Group V Firefighters, Rescue, Civil Protection and Civil Protection has been working on transnational cooperation as a response to the devastating fires in the years before.

- Since 2019, the Federal-Country Working Group National Forest Fire Protection of the Working Group V Firefighters, Rescue, Civil Protection and Civil Protection has been working on transnational cooperation as a response to the devastating fires in the years before. The fact that sustainable adaptation structures can only be developed jointly and across borders is a knowledge that has produced close cooperation between the Federal Government and the Länder.

- The fact that sustainable adaptation structures can only be developed together and across borders is a knowledge that has produced a close cooperation between the federal and state governments. The point of view that due to the topographical conditions in Germany only helicopters can be used for firefighting from the air has changed in the meantime: The experience of 2022 in the Harz-region at the Brocken with the use of Italian firefighting aircraft of the type Canadair prompted the then interior minister of the state of Lower Saxony, Boris Pistorius, to push forward the possibilities of firefighting aircraft also in Germany and Lower Saxony.

- The point of view that due to the topographical conditions in Germany only helicopters can be used for fire-fighting from the air has changed in the meantime: The experience of 2022 in the Harz-region at the Brocken with the use of Italian fire-fighting aircraft of the type Canadair caused the then Interior Minister of the state of Lower Saxony, Boris Pistorius, to push forward the possibilities of fire-fighting aircraft also in Germany or Lower Saxony. In the meantime, two fire-fighting aircraft are stationed there, financed by the EU, the federal government and the state of Lower Saxony – also a testament to successful cooperation.

- In the middle of the day, two firefighting aircraft are stationed there, financed by the EU, the federal government and the state of Lower Saxony – also a testament to successful cooperation. Forest and vegetation fires are a top topic that burns us under our nails in the truest sense of the word.

- Forest and vegetation fires are a top topic that burns us under the nails in the truest sense of the word. For this reason, they have made it into the current issue of our trade magazine "Be-e-Population Protection".

- For this reason, they have made it into the current issue of our trade magazine "Be-e-Population Protection" as a focus. In view of the precarious budgetary situation, it is currently with many question marks that it is possible to invest in training, equipment and resources at all.

- In view of the precarious budgetary situation, there are currently many questions to which extent it is possible to invest in training, training and resources at all. However, the successful cooperation between the various institutions must and will be pursued.

- However, the successful cooperation between the different entities must and will be pursued in any case. Meanwhile, it remains to be hoped that we will be able to shape the required adjustments with a sufficient funding – ahead of the next major situation.

- Meanwhile, it remains to be hoped that we will be able to design the required anpas- sations with sufficient funding – before the next big situation. Have fun reading your Nathalie Schopp Nathalie Schopp is head of the department K "Self-protection of the population, communication, psychosocial crisis management".

- Have fun reading wishes you your Nathalie Schopp Nathalie Schopp is head of department K "Self-protection of the population, communication, psychosocial crisis management". (Source: private) 1 CONTENT OF BBK POPULATION PROTECTION 3 的 2024 WALD- und VEGETABLESBRAND Bund-Länder-Arbeitsgruppe Nationaler Waldbrandschutz – ein Übersicht 2 Vegetation fire control in Germany Who is responsible for what, which working groups deal with what and an outlook on the future 4 Teamwork is the key to success!

- (Source: private) 1 CONTENTS - BBK POPULATION PROTECTION 3 - 2024 WALD- und VEGETIONSBRAND Bund-Länder-Arbeitsgruppe Nationaler Waldbrandschutz – ein Übersicht 2 Vegetation fire control in Germany Who is responsible for what, which working groups deal with what and a view of the future 4 Teamwork is the key to success! How forest and fire brigade work together effectively 6 Firefighting from the air The rescEU capacity "AFFF-LP-EN1- 10 How international aid can succeed!

- How forests and fire brigades work together effectively 6 Firefighting from the air The rescEU capacity "AFFF-LP-EN1的 10 How international aid can succeed! International activities in establishing a module in accordance with the European Civil Protection Procedure 13 Training and tactics in national vegetation fire control 15 International forest fire cooperation – from Tunisia to Jordan to the broad area of Germany A civil protection project in Tunisia creates a knowledge collection for vegetation fire control in Germany 20 EU peer review: Forest fire prevention in Brandenburg 24 Modular training for German GFFF-V units in European foreign use Federally uniform training concept for German EU modules 27 The path to the first German forest fire module 32 KRISENMANAGEMENT The ability management of federal and state governments 35 Cyberattack on government-trading – Publication of the evaluation report for LÜKEX 23 40 FORUM ARKAT.

- International activities regarding the establishment of a module in accordance with the European Civil Protection Procedure 13 Training and Tactics in the National Vegetation Fire Fighting 15 International Forest Fire Cooperation – from Tunisia to Jordan into the broad area of Germany A civil protection project in Tunisia creates a knowledge collection on the fight against vegetation fire in Germany 20 EU peer review: Forest fire prevention in Brandenburg 24 Modular training for German GFFF-V units in European foreign use Germany-wide uniform training concept for German EU modules 27 The path to the first German forest fire module 32 KRISENMANAGEMENT The ability management of the federal and state governments 35 Cyberattack on the government--publication – Publication of the evaluation report for the LÜKEX 23 40 FORUM ARKAT. Association of working communities of helpers in the government units/institutions of disaster protection in the Federal Republic of Germany e.

- Association of Working Groups of Helpers in the Directorates of Civil Protection in the Federal Republic of Germany e. V. 44 Deutscher Feuerwehrverband 46 Deutsche Lebens-Rettungs-Gesellschaft 48 Deutsches Rotes Kreuz 50 Johanniter-Unfall-Hilfe 52 Malteser 54 Technisches Hilfewerk 55 RUBRIKEN Imprint 56 SERIE Kulturgutschutz in Deutschland 57 Under: www.

- V. 44 Deutscher Feuerwehrverband 46 Deutsche Lebens-Rettungs-Gesellschaft 48 Deutsches Rotes Kreuz 50 Johanniter-Unfall-Hilfe 52 Malteser 54 Technisches Hilfswerk 55 RUBRIKEN Imprint 56 SERIE Kulturgutschutz in Deutschland 57 Unter: www. bbk.

- bbk. bund.

- bund. de/magazin ONLINE-ARTIKEL RESILIENCE The simulation game "Beteilung in Grimhausen" ONLINE-ARTIKEL CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE Even survivors are vulnerable!

- en/magazin ONLINE-ARTIKEL RESILIENCE The simulation game "Einsatz in Grimhausen-ONLINE-ARTIKEL CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE Savers can also be attacked! Approaches for improving information security for aid organisations 27 24 40 50 10 2 BBK POPULATION PROTECTION 3

- Approaches to improving information security for aid organisations 27 24 40 50 10 2 BBK POPULATION PROTECTION 3

- As a result, the Working Group V (AK V) on Fire Brigades, Retaliation, Civil Protection and Civil Defence was set up by the National Forest Fire Protection Working Group, which was open to the federal/national level.

- The first meeting was held on 20 February 2019.

- First strategic goals and a concrete working paper were developed and the interior ministers and senators of the countries at the 210.

- The first strategic objectives and a concrete working paper were developed and presented and agreed upon to the interior ministers and senators of the countries at the 210th meeting of the IMK.

- The working group was dedicated to all aspects of the protection of forests and other vegetation from fires, also with a focus on preventive measures.

- The working group devoted itself to all aspects of the protection of forests and other vegetation from fires, also with a focus on preventive measures. Early on, a link was established with the Agriculture Ministers' Conference, and a contact group of the Forestry Chiefs' Conference became a permanent member of the Working Group on National Forest Fire Protection.

- Early on, a link was established with the Agriculture Minister's Conference, and a contact group of the Forestry Chiefs' Conference became a permanent member of the Working Group on National Forest Fire Protection. The permanent members of the Working Group on National Forest Fire Protection include representatives of the Länder, the Federal Police, the Federal Office for Civil Protection and Katastro-Phenhilfe, as already mentioned, a contact group of the Forestry Chiefs' Conference, the German Fire Brigade Association, the Federal Agency for Technical Relief, the Federal Ministry of the Interior, the Federal Ministry of Defence and other relevant authorities.

- The permanent members of the Working Group National Forest Fire Protection include representatives of the Länder, the Federal Police, the Federal Office for Civil Protection and Katastro-Phenhilfe, as already mentioned a contact group of the Forst-Chief-conference, the German Fire Brigade Association, the Federal Ministry of the Interior, the Federal Ministry of Defence as well as other relevant authorities. Thus, for the first time, an interdisciplinary, inter-resort and federal/national working group was created, which looks at a topic in a holistic approach and develops useful solutions.

- This meant for the first time that an interdisciplinary, cross-resort and federal/national working group was set up, which sought a topic in a holistic approach and developed useful solutions.The working method The working group with all members meets in spring and autumn, each before the meetings of the Committee for Firefighter Affairs, Disaster Protection and Civil Defense (AFKzV) and AK V. A detailed consultation of the identified topics takes place in sub-working groups (UAG).

- The working group with all members meets in the spring and autumn, each before the meetings of the Committee for Firefighter Affairs, Disaster Protection and Civil Defence (AFKzV) and AK V. A detailed consultation of the identified topics takes place in sub-working groups (UAG). The UAGs consider the following focal points: UAG 1: UAG 1: Preventive forestry measures (Gremien der Agrarministerkonferenz – AMK über Kontaktgruppe FCK/AMK) UAG 2: UAG Aus- und Fortbildung (Niedersachsen, Projekt-gruppe Feuerwehrdienstbestimmungen) UAG 3: UAG Vehicle Conception and Normung/Technique (Brandenburg, Mecklenburg-Vorpommern) UAG 4: UAG Forest Fire Fighting from the Air (Bayern, Hessen, Brandenburg, Rhineland-Palatinate UAG 5: UAG EU-Waldbrandmodule (Nordrhein-Westfalen, Hessen, Baden-Württemberg) UAG 6:

- The UAGs consider the following focal points: UAG 1: UAG Preventive forestry measures (Gremien der Agrarministerkonferenz – AMK über Kontaktgruppe FCK/AMK) UAG 2: UAG Education and Training (Lower Saxony, Projekt-gruppe Feuerwehrdienstregänung) UAG 3: UAG Vehicle Conception and Normung/Technique (Brandenburg, Mecklenburg-Vorpommern) UAG 4: UAG Forest Fire Control from the Air (Bayern, Hessen, Brandenburg, Rheinland-Pfalz UAG 5: UAG EU Forest Fire Modules (Nordrhein-Westfalen, Hessen, Baden-Württemberg) UAG 6: UAG Taskforce, Thinktank, Knowledge Network (Baden-Württemberg, Brandenburg) UAG 7:

- For this purpose, skills should be listed in the countries on the topic of forest fire protection. In the AG Nationaler Waldbrandschutz it was quickly established that a competence management is a useful tool not only in forest fire protection and has outsourced it as its own topic.

- It was quickly established in the National Forest Fire Protection Working Group that a competence management system is a useful tool not only in forest fire protection and has developed it as its own topic. Under the leadership of the Federal Office for Population Protection and Disaster Assistance (BBK), the topic has been successfully developed.

- Under the leadership of the Federal Office for Population Protection and Disaster Assistance (BBK), the topic has been successfully developed.Main objectives of effective forest fire protection The main objectives of preventive and defensive forest fire protection are to prevent or combat vegetation fires early on.

- Main objectives of effective forest fire protection The main objectives of preventive and defensive forest fire protection are to prevent or combat vegetation fires at an early stage.The effectiveness of 3 WALD- und VEGETIONSBRAND 3 BBK POPULATION PROTECTION 3 2024 Preventive measures and cooperation with forest owners are crucial to prevent and combat large-scale forest fires.

- The effectiveness of 3 WALD- und VEGETIONSBRAND - BBK PROTECTION OF POPULATION 3- 2024 Preventive measures and cooperation with forest owners are crucial to prevent and combat large-scale forest fires.The forest fire in Lübtheen, Mecklenburg-Vorpom-mern, from 30 June to 3 July 2019, underlined the importance of these measures.

- The forest fire in Lübtheen, Mecklenburg-Vorpom-mern, from 30 June to 3 July 2019, underlined the importance of these measures. In the first and constituent meeting of the National Forest Fire Protection Agency on 21 June 2019 in Ludwigslust, the following work contracts were awarded: • Preparation of an overview of existing air-bound fire extinguishing capacities and analysis of requirements • Preparation of a position paper to improve forest fire prevention and institutional cooperation • Sighting and harmonisation of existing training regulations and, if necessary, adaptation of fire service regulations 2 (FwDV 2) Results and progress The National Forest Fire Protection Agency has developed a strategy- paper National Vegetation Fire Prevention Strategy, which was presented together with a working document to the interior ministers and senators and was adopted in autumn 2019.

- At the first and constituent meeting of the German Forest Fire Protection Agency in Ludwigslust on 21 June 2019, the following work contracts were awarded: • Preparation of an overview of existing air-bound fire extinguishing capacities and analysis of requirements • Preparation of a position paper to improve forest fire prevention and institutional cooperation • Sighting and harmonisation of existing training regulations and, if necessary, adaptation of the fire service regulations 2 (FwDV 2) Results and progress The German Forest Fire Protection Agency has developed a strategy of national vegetation fire control strategy, which was presented together with a working document to the interior ministers and senators and adopted in autumn 2019.

- The contents were closely based on the results of the work of the German Fire Brigade Association, which had already produced valuable documents. Strategy paper and working document serve as guidelines for the development of own country strategies.

- Strategy paper and working document serve as a basis for the development of own country strategies. They were updated in 2023 and also successfully presented to the IMK.

- They were updated in 2023 and also successfully presented to the IMK. Some countries, such as Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, have already invested extensively in the fire brigades and the catastrophic protection.

- Some countries, such as Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, have already invested extensively in fire brigades and cadastral protection. Brandenburg has set up a forest fire-competence centre, and Berlin has strengthened the formation in the fight against vegetation fire.

- Brandenburg has set up a forest fire-competence centre, and Berlin has strengthened the training in vegetation fire control. In Lower Saxony, aircraft for fire control were introduced from the RescEU programme.

- In Lower Saxony, aircraft were introduced from the RescEU programme to combat fire. UAG training and the UAG EU forest fire modules have completed their work.

- The UAG Education and Training and the UAG EU Forest Fire Modules have completed their work. The recommendations of the UAG Education and Training include essential training to prevent vegetation fire.

- The UAG's recommendations for training and training include essential training to combat vegetation fire. The UAG EU forest fire modules developed a concept for a widely comparable module of the EU Civil Protection Mechanism for the fight against vegetation fire with vehicles.

- The UAG EU Forest Fire Modules developed a concept for a comprehensively comparable module of the EU Civil Protection Mechanism for the fight against vegetation fire with vehicles. Forestry has developed a wide range of prevention measures.

- For the year 2024, the working group has set itself the following tasks: • Institutional exchange of experience for the implementation of the strategy paper and the working document • Evaluation of large-scale damage events Forest fire and management of national natural hazards • Examination of the legal conformity and suitability of tactivized counterfires in vegetation fires • Exchange of experience on future technologies such as robotics and artificial intelligence • Cooperation with the German Fire Brigade Association (DFV) • Start of work at the UAG Vehicle Conception and Standardisation/Technology Conclusion The Working Group on National Forest Fire Protection has achieved great effect by pooling the competences of all participating departments and actors.

- Future tasks For the year 2024, the working group has set itself the following tasks: • Institutional exchange of experience for the implementation of the strategy paper and the working document • Evaluation of large-scale damage events Forest fire and the management of national natural hazards • Examination of the legal conformity and suitability of tactivized counterfires in vegetation fires • Exchange of experience on future technologies such as robotics and artificial intelligence • Cooperation with the German Fire Brigade Association (DFV) • Start of work at the UAG Vehicle Conception and Standardisation/Technology Conclusion The Working Group National Forest Fire Protection has achieved great effect by pooling the competences of all participating departments and actors.

- Mutual appreciation, understanding and avoidance of multi-skilled work are key to success. The cooperation with forestry, the federal authorities and the countries creates optimal conditions for an efficient protection of vegetation.

- The cooperation with forestry, the federal authorities and the countries creates optimal conditions for efficient vegetation protection. The work of the AG has not yet been completed and continues to be shaped by new challenges, such as progressive climate change and new technologies.

- The work of the AG has not yet been completed and will continue to be shaped by new challenges such as progressive climate change and new technologies. Figure: The risk of forest fire is increasing in Germany.

- Figure: The risk of forest fires is increasing in Germany. (Source: R. Engel) Uwe Becker is Head of Unit Fire and Disaster Protection, ZMZ and Munitionssbergung at the Coordination Office Critical Infrastructures in the Ministry of Home Affairs, Construction and Digitalization and Chairman of the AG "National Forest Fire Protection".

- (Source: R. Engel) Uwe Becker is Head of Department for Fire and Civil Protection, ZMZ and Munitionssbergung at the Coordination Office Critical Infrastructures at the Ministry of Home Affairs, Building and Digitalization and Chairman of the AG "National Forest Fire Protection". 4 BBK POPULATION PROTECTION 3

- 4 BBK POPULATION PROTECTION 3 的 2024 的 WALD- und VEGETIONSBRAND Vegetation fire control in Germany Who is responsible for what, which working groups deal with this and an outlook for the future Dr. Ulrich Cimolino Unfortunately, there are always uncertainties about the own responsibilities – and thus the responsibility – for larger damage situations. Since the introduction of the Basic Law, the basic responsibilities have been regulated as follows:

