# 04.06.2024

- Cimolino, Dr. Ulrich: Analysis of the operational experience and development of optimization possibilities in the fight against vegetation fires in Germany Dis-- sertation, University of Wuppertal, 2014; https://d-nb. in- fo/1056817895/34, available: 04.06.2024 Cimolino, Dr. Ulrich; Papke, Florian: Ability management, in: Fire brigade (UB), Forum-Verlag Herkert, Manching, 2023 DFV: FE Vegetation fire control, DFV, Berlin, 2020; https://www.

- in- 1056817895/34, available: 04.06.2024 Cimolino, Dr. Ulrich; Papke, Florian: Affordability management, in: Feuerwehr (UB), Forum-Verlag Herkert, Manching, 2023 DFV: FE Vegetation fire control, DFV, Berlin, 2020; https://www. fleutwehrverband.

- freuerwehrverband. de/fachrecommendation-ve- getationsbrand-updated/, retrieved: 04.06.2024 DFV: FE Aircraft Operations, DFV, Berlin, 2022; https://www.freuerwehrverband.de/freuerwehrverband. de/fachrecommendation-ve- getationsbrand-updated/, retrieved: 04.06.2024 DFV: FE Aircraft Operations, DFV, Berlin, 2022; https://www.freuerwehrverband.de/freuerwehrverband.de/freuerwehrverband. de/freundrecommendation-ve-getationsbrand-updated/, retrieved: 04.06.2024 DFV: FE Aircraft Operations, DFV, Berlin, 2022; https://www.freuerwehrverband.de/freuerwehrverband.

- de/fachrecommendation-ve- getationsbrand-updated/, retrieved: 04.06.2024 DFV: FE aircraft operation, DFV, Berlin, 2022; https://www. fleutwehrverband.

- Fire brigade. de/app/uploads/2022/03/DFV-FE_ Aircraft_2022.

- en/app/uploads/2022/03/DFV-FE_ Aircraft_2022. pdf, retrieved: 04.06.2024 6 BBK POPULATION PROTECTION 3

- pdf, retrieved: 04.06.2024 6 BBK POPULATION PROTECTION 3

- How forest and fire brigade work together effectively Raimund Engel After the International Working Group on Fire and Katastro-Phenschutz (AK V) for Fire Departments, Rescue, Civil Protection and Civil Defense of the Interior Ministerial Conference (IMK) was set up in 2018, a country-wide working group on National Forest Fire Protection was set up.With regard to the consideration of preventive forest fire protection, the need was seen to involve the forest administration in the working group.The IMK approached the Conference of Ministers for Forests and Forestry and Rural Development (AGK) in the summer of 2019 and asked for institutional cooperation.

- In the summer of 2019, the IMK approached the Conference of Ministers for Agriculture, Forestry and Rural Development (AGK) and asked for institutional cooperation. After the AMK agreed to the request for cooperation of the Working Group of the Federal-Country Working Group on Forestry (Forest Chief Conference) with the open-country working group on National Forest Fire Protection, representatives from the forest administrations of the countries were appointed by the Forestry Chief Conference to participate in the working group in the same year.

- Following the agreement of the AMK with the open-country working group National Forest Fire Protection, representatives from the forest administrations of the Länder were called to participate in the working group in the same year by the forest chief conference. Seven forest administrations sent experts to the panel, in particular to introduce the requirement for prevention measures with particular regard to forestry aspects, to intensify cooperation with the other departments and organizations and to identify further research activities.

- Seven forest administrations sent experts to the panel, in particular in order to establish the requirement for prevention measures with particular attention to forestry aspects, to intensify cooperation with the other departments and organizations and to identify further research areas. Based on the experience in preventive forest fire protection, forest representatives from Brandenburg and Lower Saxony were appointed by the forest chief conference as the contact group for forest in the working group on the protection of forest fires.

- Based on the experience gained in preventive forest fire protection, the forest representatives from Brandenburg and Lower Saxony were appointed by the Forest Chief Conference as representatives of the Forest Contact Group in the Working Group on National Forest Fire Protection. With the involvement of the Federal and Länder Forestry Administrations in the Working Group, the foundations for a successful cooperation were created.

- With the involvement of the forest administrations of the federal government and the Länder in the working group, the foundations for a successful cooperation were created. It is fundamental to note that risk-based approaches predict an increasing forest fire risk for Germany as well.

- It is fundamental to note that risk-based approaches for the future also predict an increasing forest fire risk for Germany. Climate change and the increasing use of the forest by the population seeking recreation expect an increase in the number of vegetation fires despite the high standard, especially since most forest fires are caused by human action.

- In spite of the high standard, the climate and the increasing use of the forest by the population seeking recreation is expected to increase the number of vegetation fires, especially since most forest fires are caused by human action. An increasing risk of forest fire therefore requires intensive prevention measures and a situation-related adjustment.

- An increasing risk of forest fire therefore requires intensive preventive measures and a situation-related adjustment. It is important to achieve a successful prevention through the interaction of different preventive measures.

- It is important to achieve successful prevention through the interaction of different preventive measures. The contact group Forst, also as a sub-work group, led preventive measures in preventive forest fire protection, already at the beginning of the work developed a proposal for the early organization of the implementation process of the topic field preventive forest-related measures and thereby placed the following main topics in the foreground of the cooperation: • extinguishing water supply Efficient, operational, easily accessible and sufficiently marked extinguishing water sampling points in forest areas form the basis for a secure extinguishing water supply in the forest fire control.

- At the beginning of the work, the Contact Group Forst, also as a sub-work group, led preventive measures in preventative forest fire protection, developed a proposal for the early organisation of the implementation process in the field of preventive forest fire protection and placed the following main topics in the foreground of the cooperation: • extinguishing water supply Efficient, operational, easily accessible and sufficiently marked extinguishing water extraction points in forest areas form the basis for a secure extinguishing water supply in the forest fire control. Therefore, there is a need to create and maintain a corresponding network of natural and artificial extinguishing water reserves and shelters in related forest, bog and heath areas depending on the respective regional and stand-alone risk (low, medium, high).

- There is therefore a need to establish and maintain a network of natural and artificial extinguishing water reserves and sites in relation to the respective regional and local risk (low, medium, high). Close coordination between forest owners, forest authorities and fire brigades is essential.

- Close coordination between forest owners, forest authorities and fire brigades is essential in this respect, and the need to establish a procedure for the regular verification of the functioning and accessibility of fire-fighting water supply is seen.

- The need to establish a procedure for the regular verification of the functionality and accessibility of fire water supply is seen. • Development of forest areas The rapid accessibility of fire sites in forests is the key factor in combating forest fires at an early stage of development.

- • Development of forest areas The rapid accessibility of fire sites in the forests is the key factor in combating forest fires at an early stage of development. The paths that are upgraded and maintained for the removal of wood are also the paths that are usually useful for fire and civil protection.

- The roads which are equipped and maintained for the removal of wood are also the roads which are generally usable for fire and civil protection. In addition to the technical ability of the operating vehicles to be able to use such roads, the condition of the roads is decisive.

- In addition to the technical capacity of the operating vehicles to be able to use such roads, the state of the roads is decisive. Therefore, the joint task of forest owners, forest authorities as well as the carriers of fire and civil protection, an intact, forest-crossing path system is to create, maintain and maintain as an elementary building block of forest fire prevention.

- It is therefore the joint task of forest owners, forest authorities as well as the fire and civil protection authorities to create, maintain and maintain an intact, forest-crossing system of paths as an elementary building block of forest fire prevention. In addition, the area-covering construction of an emergency meeting point system/retention points is to be carried out and made known.

- In addition, the area-covering construction of an emergency meeting point system/retention points is to be carried out and made known. 7 WALD- AND VEGETIONSBRAND - BBK POPULATION PROTECTION 3- 2024 • Forest construction measures and forest fire protection strips To prevent the spread of a fire in the case of a forest fire or to convert full fire by withdrawing easily combustible material into easily extinguished fires, the installation or implementation of forest construction and technical measures in Ge- is an important part of forest fire prevention with regional and local risk.

- 7 WALD- und VEGETIONSBRAND - BBK PROTECTION OF POPULATION 3 - 2024 • Forest construction measures and forest fire strips In order to prevent the spread of a fire in the event of a forest fire or to convert full fires by withdrawing easily combustible material into more easily extinguished fires, the installation or implementation of forest construction and technical measures in Ge- is an important part of forest fire prevention with regional and permanent risk. In particular, the site of Wundstreife has proven its worth along heavily frequented public transport areas.

- Especially their along heavily frequented public transport areas the installation of wound strips has proven itself. Hereby often artificial, however nature protection is created, technically valuable biotopes, in which an increased tuning demand with the nature conservation authorities can arise.

- Many artificial biotopes, however, are technically valuable in nature conservation, where an increased demand for tuning can arise with the nature conservation authorities. In addition, bar posts made of hardwood, especially within extensive nae del forest complexes, can perform a useful function in order to stop or at least weaken vegetation fires.

- In addition, barbed stands made of hardwood, especially within extensive nae del forest complexes, can perform a useful function to stop or at least weaken vegetation fires. In suitable coniferous stocks, sub- or pre-cultivation of local hardwoods is an important goal in forest fire prevention.

- In suitable coniferous wood stocks, sub- or pre-cultivation of local hardwoods is an important goal in forest fire prevention. In the long term, structurally rich and climate-resistant forests are to be created.

- In the long term, structurally rich and climate-resistant forests are to be created. • Early forest fire detection The introduction of automated forest fire detection systems has proven to be particularly effective in areas with medium and high forest fire risk.

- • Early forest fire detection The introduction of automated early forest fire detection systems has proven to be particularly effective in areas with medium and high forest fire risk, not reducing the number of fires, but reducing the area of forest fires.

- Although the number of fires is not reduced, the area of the forest fires is reduced. The early and accurate Er-Known of forest fires and the rapid alarming ensure that the forces are quickly on site and can start the fire work.

- The early and accurate knowledge of forest fires and the rapid alarming ensure that the forces are quickly on site and can start extinguishing work. The inter-country use of a uniform system creates the possibility to use systems at the country borders by accessing systems from other countries.

- The cross-border use of a single system creates the possibility to use systems at the country borders through access to systems from other countries. Cooperations are already in place or are currently being expanded and intensified.

- Cooperations are already in place or are currently being expanded and intensified. • Enlightenment of the population The majority of forest fires are caused by improper behaviour of the human being himself.

- • Enlightenment of the population The majority of forest fires are caused by improper behaviour of the human being himself. They often result from ignorance or lack of sensitivity, often also from intentional arson.

- They often react out of ignorance or lack of sensitivity, often also out of intentional arson. Therefore, targeted public relations work is required to prevent forest and vegetation fires.

- For this reason, targeted public relations work is needed to prevent forest and vegetation fires. It is incessantly necessary to provide information on the correct behaviour in the forest to prevent forest fires on different paths to the different target groups.

- It is incessantly necessary to provide information on the correct behaviour in the forest to prevent forest fires on different paths to the different target groups. In order to better establish the field of forest fire protection in the public sphere, it was suggested from the beginning that the topic of forest fire risk should be brought back into focus nationwide by means of a corresponding logo.

- In order to better establish the field of forest fire protection in the public sphere, it was suggested right from the start that the topic of forest fire risk should be brought back into focus nationwide by means of a corresponding logo. • Information on the field of application For quick and effective fire control, extensive information on the area of application must be available in the short term, if possible already during the alarming of forces.

- • Information on the field of application For rapid and effective firefighting, extensive information on the area of application must be available in the short term, if possible already during the alarming of forces. This also includes emergency maps, which must be maintained by the competent authorities and made available in digital form to the fire protection carriers, the civil protection organisations and all other authorities and organizations with safety tasks (BOS).

- These include emergency maps, which must be kept available by the competent authorities and made available in digital form to fire-fighters, civil protection organisations and all other authorities and organisations with safety tasks (BOS). In the event of major damage, cross-border fire brigade operations may also be required, so the Forst Contact Group considers the approach of developing national standards for a forest fire-fighting card for unabdigebar.

- In the event of major damage, cross-border fire brigade operations may also be required, so the Forst Contact Group considers the approach of the development of national standards for a forest fire intervention card for unabding. • Training and training The Forst Contact Group recognizes it as a mandatory task that the employees of municipalities, fire sufferers, forest administrations and larger forest owners are trained and trained on the topic of forest fire protection.

- • Training and further training The Forst Contact Group recognizes that it is a mandatory task for the employees of municipalities, fire sufferers, forest administrations and larger forest owners to be trained and trained on the topic of forest fire protection. In addition to the current state of forest fire prevention and control, knowledge in the cooperation of all parties involved in the operation is also indispensable.

- In addition to the current state of forest fire prevention and control, knowledge in the cooperation of all participants in the operation is indispensible. In joint exercises, the cooperation of all participants is to be tested and kept up to date.

- In joint exercises, the cooperation of all participants is to be tested and kept up to date. In the view of the foresters, the fire brigades have a special task, by training operations and teamwork in different scenarios. All of the topics shown here are also reflected in the updated strategy paper National Vegetation Fire Fighting (as of 19 May 2023) and the accompanying working paper (as of 19 May 2023).

- In the view of the foresters, the fire brigades have a special task by training operations and teamwork in different scenarios. All of the topics presented here are also reflected in the updated strategy paper National Vegetation Fire Control (as of 19 May 2023) and the accompanying working paper (as of 19 May 2023).The contact group Forst in the international group Na- tional forest fire protection is aware that a large part of the preventive measures shown here cannot be implemented from today to tomorrow in the forest fire protection that is preventing the fire.

- The Forst contact group in the national forest fire protection group is aware that a large part of the preventive measures shown here cannot be implemented from today to tomorrow in the forest fire protection system, which is leading up to it. Some measures, particularly forest-building projects, are a generational task.

- Some measures, in particular forest-building projects, are a generational task. Nevertheless, it is important to initiate the initiatives in this respect and to contribute, through the various bodies, to ensuring that the measures can also be implemented with the support of the European Union, the Federal Government and the Länder.

- However, it is important to initiate the initiatives in this regard and to contribute, through the various bodies, to ensuring that the measures can also be implemented with the support of the European Union, the Federal Government and the Länder. Some basic preparatory work for improved cooperation has been carried out in recent years.

- Some basic preparatory work for improved cooperation has been carried out in recent years. In particular, results are already available regarding the determination of federal standards for forest fire maps as well as the recommendation for the use of a federal logo (forest fire oak) for forest fire protection.

- In particular, results are already available regarding the determination of federal standards for forest fire maps as well as the recommendation on the use of a federal logo (forest fire pond) for forest fire protection. The contact group Forst also has a great deal of support through numerous results from the initiated and funded projects of the specialized agency Nachwachsende Roh-stoffe e.

- The Forst Contact Group has also received great support through numerous results from the initiated and funded projects of the specialist agency Renewable Raw Materials (FNR).

- V. (FNR). At this point, we would like to thank the FNR-funded joint project 8 BBK PROTECTION OF POPULATION 3, 2024, WALD- und VEGETIONSBRAND THOR, which substantially supported the aspects of the federal unit.

- At this point, we would like to thank the FNR-funded joint project 8 BBK PROTECTION OF POPULATION 3, 2024, WALD- und VEGETIONSBRAND THOR, which has substantially supported the aspects of federal fire intervention maps and fire supply. The Forst Contact Group welcomes the decision of the IMK of 8 December 2023, in which the permanent conference of the interior ministers and senators of the countries commissioned the AK V to implement the measures described in the strategy paper, with the participation of the Agriculture Ministerial Conference or the bodies designated by the latter.

- The Forst Contact Group welcomes the decision of the IMK of 8 December 2023, in which the permanent conference of the interior ministers and senators of the countries commissioned the AK V to implement the measures outlined in the strategy paper with the participation of the Conference of Agriculture Ministers or the working bodies designated by the IMK (Forest Chief Confession) further. Thus, the cooperation between forest and fire brigade can continue at all levels and make an effective contribution to improved forest fire protection.

- The cooperation between forest and fire brigade can thus be continued at all levels and can make an effective contribution to improved forest fire protection. Forest fire protection is teamwork and should be understood by all actors.

- Forest fire protection is teamwork and should also be understood by all actors. A good team is more than the sum of its individual achievements.

- Because a good team is more than the sum of its individual achievements. It is the way in which the team members work together and support themselves, which constitutes the success.

- It is the way in which the team members work together and support each other, which constitutes the success. Regulations on cooperation between forest and fire brigade in preventive and defensive fire protection BB Joint decree of the Ministry of the Interior and for municipal and the Ministry of Agriculture, Environment and Climate Protection for the prevention and defence of forest fires (Waldbranderlass) of

