# 12.06.2024

- Service regulations or DIN standards for such support forces are not yet available. The countries – for civil protection acc.

- The countries – for civil protection according to Art.

- Art. 70 i.

- 70 i.p.m. Art.

- V. m. Art. 30 GG to be permanent – establish within the scope of their jurisdiction con cepts for disasters in their own country.

- 30 GG at a constant level – draw up concepts for disasters in their own country within the framework of their responsibility. These contain descriptions for larger associations or special forces, composed of municipal units and mostly reinforced by appropriate financing also with other vehicles.

- These include descriptions for larger associations or special forces, assembled from the municipal units and mostly reinforced by appropriate financing also with other vehicles. With these forces the protection of the own population in the event of a disaster can be ensured in principle.

- With these forces, the protection of the own population in the event of a disaster can be ensured in principle. The federal government is in principle responsible for "protecting the population from the effects of war and eliminating or mitigating their consequences" (§ 1 ZSKG).

- The federal government is in principle responsible for "protecting the population from the effects of war and eliminating or mitigating their consequences" (§ 1 ZSKG). To this end, the federal government supports the countries with additional equipment, especially in the detection and defense of CBRN hazards, but also in the supply of many last and special fire protection.

- To this end, the federal government supports the Länder with additional equipment, in particular in the detection and defence of CBRN hazards, but also in the supply of many last and special fire protection. For this purpose, the federal government has developed the same concepts of use throughout Germany.

- For this purpose, the Federal Government has developed the same operational concepts throughout Germany, including the Analytical Task Force (ATF) and the Medical Task Force (MTF).

- These include the Analytical Task Force (ATF) and Medical Task Force (MTF). Katastro-Phenhilfe between countries or between the Federation and the countries has no separate units and therefore uses one of the two.

- The Katastro-Phenhilfe between countries or between the Federation and the Länder has no separate units and therefore uses one of the two. The following example illustrates this fact: In the context of increasing heavy rain and flood events, the civil protection authorities increasingly face the challenge of having to evacuate a large number of people.

- The following example illustrates this fact: In the context of increasing heavy rain and flood events, the civil protection authorities are increasingly confronted with the challenge of having to evacuate a large number of people. For this purpose, in many Figure 1: Situation map on floods in southern Germany 2024 (Source: BBK) 36 BBK POPULATION PROTECTION 3

- In many Figure 1: Situation map on floods in southern Germany 2024 (Source: BBK) 36 BBK POPULATION PROTECTION 3

- Here, three units, which are understood as a water rescue train, are compared. Hessen4 North Rhine-Westphalia5 Saxony6 Number of boats 4 5 2 Number of units 25 48 10 Table 1: Comparison of three water rescue trains.

- Hessen4 North Rhine-Westphalia5 Saxony6 Number of boats 4 5 2 Number of unit forces 25 48 10 Table 1: Comparison of three water rescue trains. The personnel strength and the material and therefore probably also the efficiency of the same named resource differs between the countries.

- The number of personnel and the material, and therefore probably also the capacity of the same resource, differs between the countries. This indicates in the worst case that unit A can be evacuated in one place 50 people per hour, with unit B only 20 people per hour.

- This indicates in the worst case that unit A can be evacuated in one place 50 people per hour, with unit B only 20 people per hour. To achieve the same result in the same time, type B therefore needs twice as many units as type A.

- In order to achieve the same result at the same time, Type B therefore requires twice as many units as Type A. However, both units bear the same designation and are probably considered equivalent in pre-use planning, despite performance differences.

- However, both units bear the same designation and are probably also considered equivalent in the pre-planning of operations, despite the difference in performance. Unmistakeable and simple solutions are indispensable for the plans of an operational manager who is under extreme pressure in such an event.

- For the plans of an operational manager, who is under extreme pressure in such an event, clear and simple solutions are indispensable. It cannot be expected that within the framework of an ongoing consultation the various offers at a request and the complicated concepts behind them will be analysed in detail in order to understand 15 country-specific offers in case of doubt.

- It cannot be expected that, within the framework of an ongoing consultation, a wide variety of offers will be analysed in detail at a request and the complex concepts behind them, in order to understand 15 country-specific offers in case of doubt. This results in time losses and the procedure is prone to error.

- This results in time losses and the procedure is prone to error. If the required units are not available in the form, a recomposition of units follows.

- If the required units are not available in the form, a reassembly of units follows. These are missing coordinated processes (SOPs) for use.

- These are missing coordinated processes (SOPs) for use. The necessary coordination results in a friction loss.

- The necessary coordination results in a loss of friction. The mentioned difficulties can be counteracted.

- The difficulties mentioned above may be countered by the need for a coordinated language.

- A coordinated language is necessary for this. Four solutions with each example:

