# 6.

- Ensuring the ability to restore confidentiality, integrity, availability and resilience of systems and services related to the processing of personal data, including the ability to quickly restore availability and access in the event of a physical or technical incident. The personal information body may also process personal data for the purpose of carrying out test operations of the personal information body if the test operation cannot be carried out or can only be carried out with a disproportionate effort with test data or anonymised or pseudonymised data; the processing of personal data is permitted in accordance with the first sentence, paragraphs 1 to 6.

- The personal information body may also process personal data for the purpose of carrying out test operations of the personal information body if the test operation cannot or can only be carried out with a disproportionate effort with test data or anonymised or pseudonymised data; the processing of personal data in accordance with the first sentence, points 1 to 6. (3) In the case of a disaster or major damage situation in accordance with paragraph 1, the cooperating data, units and facilities may process the personal data referred to in the first sentence of paragraph 2 for the purposes of the personal information body - page 12 of 17.

- 3. In the event of a disaster or major damage as referred to in paragraph 1, the participating entities, units and bodies may process the personal data referred to in the first sentence of paragraph 2 for the purposes of the personal information body's tasks, page 12 of 17. They shall disclose the personal data relating to them to persons of the personal information body for the purpose of carrying out their tasks without prior request.

- You must disclose the personal data of persons concerned with you to the personal information office for the purpose of their performance of tasks even without prior request. Processing for other purposes, in particular disclosure to other bodies, is only permitted if a law allows this.

- Processing for other purposes, in particular disclosure to other bodies, is only permitted where legal provisions permit. (4) Personal data collected at the personal information office may be disclosed to the police authorities, public prosecutors, courts, security and judicial authorities for the purposes of preparing and implementing security measures and prosecuting penalties, where necessary.

- (4) The personal data collected at the personal information office may be disclosed to the police authorities, public prosecutors, courts, security authorities and judicial enforcement agencies for the purposes of preparing and implementing security measures and prosecuting penalties. (5) Where data is processed for test purposes in accordance with the fourth sentence of paragraph 2, the processing of the data shall be documented in a transparent manner with due cause, justification, scope and duration as well as the security measures taken.

- (5) Where data are processed for test purposes in accordance with the fourth sentence of paragraph 2, the processing of the data shall be documented in a transparent manner with due cause, justification, scope and duration, as well as the security measures taken. It must be ensured that, in carrying out and evaluating the test, the legitimate interests of the data subject and the data security are adequately taken into account.

- It must be ensured that, when carrying out and evaluating the test, the legitimate interests of the data subject and the data security are adequately taken into account. The data protection officer must be involved at an early stage by the competent body.

- The data protection officer must be involved early by the competent authority. After evaluation of the results of the test operation, the data used must be deleted immediately or anonymised in the test area.

- After evaluation of the results of the test operation, the data used must be deleted immediately or anonymised in the test area. The documentation according to sentence 1 shall be kept for one year.

- The documentation according to sentence 1 shall be kept for one year. Third part Volunteers § 19 General 1Helper within the meaning of this part are persons within the meaning of § 10.

- Third part Volunteers § 19 General 1Helpers within the meaning of this part are persons within the meaning of § 10. 2Your assistance is voluntary.

- 2Your assistance is voluntary. § 20 Start of the assistance relationship (1) 1The helpers commit themselves to a civil protection authority to provide assistance in civil protection for a certain or indefinite period of time.

- § 20 Start of the assistance relationship (1) 1The helpers undertake to a civil protection authority to provide assistance in civil protection for a certain or indefinite period of time. 2The declaration shall be made in writing.

- 2The declaration shall be made in writing. (2) The assistance relationship shall begin with the consent of a civil protection authority.

- (2) The helper relationship begins with the consent of a civil protection authority. § 21 Termination of the helper relationship (1) The helper relationship ends

