# 3.

- § 23 Self-responsibility, confidentiality and rewards The provisions of §§ 36, 37 and 42 of the Civil Service Status Act of 17 June 2008 (BGBl.

- § 23 Self-responsible, Confidentiality and Rewards The provisions of §§ 36, 37 and 42 of the Civil Service Status Act of 17 June 2008 (BGBl. I p. 1010), amended on 5 February 2009 (BGBl.

- I, p. 1010), as amended on 5 February 2009 (BGBl. I, p. 160, 262), as amended in the current version on personal responsibility, confidentiality and the acceptance of rewards are valid for helpers.

- I p. 160, 262), in the current version on the responsibility, confidentiality and the acceptance of rewards are valid for helpers. § 24 Social security (1) The helpers must not suffer from their obligation to serve in civil protection or from this service any disadvantages in the employment or service relationship, as well as in the social and unemployment insurance and in company pension schemes, in particular they must not be notified.

- § 24 Social protection (1) The helpers may not be deprived of their obligation to serve in civil protection or from this service in the employment or service relationship as well as in social and unemployment insurance and in occupational pensions, in particular they may not be notified. (2) 1During the duration of participation in missions, exercises ordered or approved by the competent authority, courses, training or other professional events and a reasonable period before and after that, the helpers shall not be required to provide work or service.

- (2) 1During the period of participation in operations, exercises ordered or approved by the competent authority, courses, training or other professional activities, and a reasonable period before and after that, the helpers shall not be required to work or provide services. 2Employers shall be obliged to grant the helpers, for these periods of downtime, the wages or remuneration, including any ancillary benefits and allowances they would have received without participation in the Civil Protection Service.

- 2Employers are obliged to grant the helpers for these downtimes the wages or remuneration, including all ancillary benefits and allowances, which they would have received without participation in the Civil Protection Service. (3) For civil servants and judges of the Free and Hanseatic City of Hamburg as well as for officials of the state-owned bodies, institutions and foundations of public law, paragraphs 1 and 2 shall apply mutatis mutandis.

- (3) Paragraphs 1 and 2 shall apply mutatis mutandis to civil servants and judges of the Free and Hanseatic City of Hamburg, as well as to civil servants of the state-owned bodies, institutions and foundations of public law. (4) Self-employed volunteers shall be entitled to the grant of a flat-rate amount of recognition for a loss of earnings, as verified, in the same amount as the corresponding members of the voluntary fire brigades.

- (4) Professionally independent helpers are entitled to the grant of a flat-rate amount of recognition for a loss of earnings in the same amount as the corresponding beneficiaries of the voluntary fire brigades. (5) Aiders who receive benefits from the Bundesanstalt für Arbeit, Sozialhilfe as well as other support or remuneration from public funds are still entitled to the benefits which they would have received without the service in civil protection.

- (5) Aid recipients who receive benefits from the Bundesanstalt für Arbeit, Sozialhilfe as well as other support or remuneration from public funds shall continue to receive the benefits they would have received without the service in civil protection. - Page 14 of 17 - (6) 1Required cash expenses and additional costs for meals incurred by the helpers in the course of or on the occasion of the service in civil protection shall be replaced upon request.

- - Page 14 of 17 - (6) 1Requirement of cash expenses and additional costs for meals incurred by the helpers when exercising or on the occasion of service in civil protection must be replaced upon request. 2Replacement of expenses may be lumped down.

- (7) The Free and Hanseatic City of Hamburg participates in the expenditure incurred by the helpers or their survivors on the occasion or in connection with the performance of their voluntary activities, in accordance with the budget, by granting aid.

- (7) In accordance with the budget, the Free and Hanseatic City of Hamburg participates in the expenditure incurred by the helpers or their survivors on occasion or in connection with the performance of their voluntary activities by granting aid. § 24 a Refund entitlements of employers (1) Private employers must be reimbursed on request.

