# 2.

- no eviction, blocking or security measures pursuant to § 17 paragraphs 2 and 3, not fully or in good time. (2) The irregularity can be punished with fines of up to 5000 euros.

- (2) Infringement of the law can be fined up to 5000 euros. § 29 Committee on Civil Protection 1The Office for Home Affairs and Sport is formed by a Committee on Civil Protection under § 16 of the Act on Administrative Authorities, as amended on 30 July 1952 (collection of the adjusted Hamburger Landesrechts I 2000-a).

- § 29 Committee on Civil Protection 1The Office for Home Affairs and Sport is formed by a Committee on Civil Protection in accordance with § 16 of the Act on Administrative Authorities, as amended on 30 July 1952 (collection of the adjusted Hamburger Landesrechts I 2000-a). 2The Committee shall in particular include representatives of the civil protection authorities, specialised authorities and district offices as well as one representative of the institutions of the units and agencies.

- In particular, the Committee shall be composed of representatives of the civil protection authorities, specialised authorities and district offices, as well as one representative of the bodies of the units and agencies of civil protection. 3The Committee shall advise on civil protection issues, in particular the implementation of this Act.

- 3The Committee advises questions of disaster protection, in particular the implementation of this law. § 30 Restriction of fundamental rights This law limits fundamental rights to physical integrity, freedom of the person and inviolability of the dwelling (Articles 2 and 13 of the Basic Law).

- § 30 Restriction of fundamental rights This law limits fundamental rights to physical integrity, freedom of the person and inviolability of the dwelling (Articles 2 and 13 of the Basic Law). § 31 Entry into force This law enters into force on the day after the announcement.

- § 31 Entry into force This law enters into force on the day after the announcement. Made in Hamburg, 16 January 1978.

- Made in Hamburg, 16 January 1978. The Senate - Page 17 of 17 -

