# 5.

- natural and legal persons as well as associations of persons which have been used by civil protection authorities to provide assistance in civil protection (§ 16). (2) In the context of their participation, in particular within the framework of the contracts awarded to them by civil protection authorities, the forces of the Federal Government, the Länder, districts and municipalities have the same powers as the corresponding forces of the Free and Hanseatic City of Hamburg.

- (2) In the context of their participation, in particular in the context of the contracts awarded to them by civil protection authorities, the forces of the Federal Government, the Länder, the municipalities and the municipalities have the same powers as the corresponding forces of the Free and Hanseatic City of Hamburg. § 4 Units and institutions of private aid organisations (1) Private aid organisations are legal persons under private law, whose tasks include the provision of assistance in the event of disasters.

- § 4 Units and institutions of private aid organisations (1) Private aid organisations are legal entities under private law, the tasks of which include the provision of assistance in the event of disasters. (2) Units and institutions of private aid organisations are structured summaries of persons and material under uniform leadership.

- (2) Units and institutions of private aid organisations are structured summaries of persons and material under uniform leadership. § 5 Participation of units and institutions of private relief organisations (1) 1Units and institutions of private relief organisations contribute to civil protection if their organizations have declared their willingness to participate in writing and the Katastrophenschutzbehörde has agreed to their participation.

- § 5 Participation of the units and institutions of private aid organisations (1) 1Units and institutions of private aid organisations shall participate in civil protection if their organizations have declared their willingness to participate in writing and the Katastrophenschutz authority has agreed to their participation. 2The consent shall specify the strength, link, equipment and equipment of the units and institutions.

- 2The consent shall specify the strength, link, equipment and equipment of the units and facilities. (2) The participation of the units and facilities of private aid organisations in civil protection shall end.

