# 7.

- Arrangements for informing the emergency and emergency services of other Member States of the European Union in the event of a serious accident involving possible cross-border consequences. (5) In the case of the preparation or substantial changes to the external emergency plans, their drafts shall be interpreted as early as possible for consultation with the public concerned.

- (5) Where the external emergency plans are drawn up or substantially modified, their drafts shall be interpreted as early as possible for consultation with the public concerned; the duration of the public interpretation shall be one month.

- The duration of the public interpretation shall be one month. The parts of the external contingency plans in need of secrecy, in particular personal information subject to data protection, covert telephone numbers or internal instructions, shall be excluded.

- The confidential parts of the external emergency plans, in particular personal data subject to data protection, hidden telephone numbers or internal instructions, are excluded. Place and duration of the interpretation must be made public in advance, indicating that concerns and suggestions can be raised during the period of interpretation.

- The location and duration of the interpretation shall be made public in advance, indicating that concerns and suggestions may be raised during the period of interpretation.

- If more than fifty people have expressed concerns and suggestions with essentially the same content, the communication of the result of the examination may be replaced by the provision of access to the result; the body where the result of the examination can be viewed during the hours of service must be made publicly available on the premises.

- If more than fifty persons have expressed concerns and suggestions with substantially the same content, the communication of the result of the examination may be replaced by the provision of access to the result to those persons; the body at which the result of the examination can be viewed during hours of service shall be made publicly available on the spot. If the draft of the external emergency plan is modified or supplemented in accordance with the interpretation, it shall be reinterpreted.

- If the draft of the external emergency plan is modified or supplemented after its interpretation, it shall be re-examined. In the re-examination, it may be determined that concerns and suggestions can only be raised with regard to the amended or supplemented parts.

- In the reinterpretation, it can be determined that concerns and suggestions can only be raised with regard to the amended or supplemented parts. If the amendment or addition of the draft does not affect the broad lines of the planning, or if amendments or additions are of minor or minor importance, a further public interpretation may be waived.

- 6. Civil protection authorities shall review, test and, where necessary, update and update the external contingency plans they draw up at appropriate intervals of not more than three years with the participation of the operator and taking into account the internal contingency plan.

- 6. Civil protection authorities shall review, test and, where necessary, update the external contingency plans they have drawn up at appropriate intervals of not more than three years with the participation of the operator and taking into account the internal contingency plan; this review shall take into account changes in the establishments concerned and the emergency services concerned, new technical knowledge and knowledge of how to act in the event of major accidents.

- This review shall take into account changes in the establishments concerned and the emergency services concerned, new technical findings and findings on how to act in the event of major accidents. Second section Disaster prevention § 14 Principle (1) In the case of disasters, civil protection authorities shall take the necessary measures to combat disasters effectively, at their discretion and in accordance with the applicable laws.

- Second section Disaster prevention § 14 Principle (1) In the event of a disaster, the civil protection authorities shall take the necessary measures for the effective fight against the disasters at their discretion and in accordance with the applicable laws. (2) The Civil Protection Authority shall determine the occurrence and end of the disaster.

- § 15 - Page 9 of 17 - Right of instruction (1) In the event of a disaster, the participating units and institutions of private aid organisations (§§ 4 to 9), the volunteers (§ 10), the forces of the legal persons of public law (§ 11) and the persons involved in assistance services (§ 16) shall be subject to the instructions of the Civil Protection Authority from which they are deployed.

- § 15 - Page 9 of 17 - Right of instruction (1) In the event of a disaster, the participating units and institutions of private relief organizations (§§ 4 to 9), the voluntary helpers (§ 10), the forces of legal persons under public law (§ 11) and the persons involved in providing assistance (§ 16) shall be subject to the instructions of the Civil Protection Authority from which they are deployed. (2) The same shall apply to the forces and institutions provided by the Federation, Länder, districts, municipalities and other states on request or on the basis of an agreement (§ 12).

- (2) The same applies to the forces and institutions provided by the Federal Government, Länder, districts, municipalities and other states on request or on the basis of an agreement (§ 12). § 16 Obligations to provide assistance (1) 1The civil protection authorities may, to the extent necessary for the fight against a catastrophe, use natural and legal persons and associations of persons within and outside Hamburg with their objects of property and works within the territory of the Free and Hanseatic City of Hamburg in accordance with § 2 paragraph 1 and in accordance with §§ 3 paragraphs 1 and 6 and 4 paragraphs 2 and 3 of the Federal Performance Act as amended on 27 September 1961 (Bundesgesetzblatt I page 1769).

- § 16 Obligations to provide assistance (1) 1Insofar as this is necessary to combat a disaster, the civil protection authorities may use natural and legal persons as well as associations of persons within and outside Hamburg with their equipment and equipment located within the territory of the Free and Hanseatic City of Hamburg in the scope of § 2 paragraph 1 and in accordance with §§ 3 paragraphs 1 and 6 and 4 paragraphs 2 and 3 of the Federal Performance Act as amended on 27 September 1961 (Federal Law Gazette I page 1769). 2If, in order to combat a catastrophe, the use of persons with special training or with special knowledge is required, the civil protection authorities may use any adult person residing in the territory of the Free and Hanseatic City of Hamburg with this training or this knowledge for a period of up to three days within one month to provide assistance in the field of civil protection, provided that the civil protection authorities do not have sufficient powers.

- 2If, in order to combat a disaster, the use of persons with special training or with special knowledge is required, the civil protection authorities may use any adult person residing in the territory of the Free and Hanseatic City of Hamburg with this training or knowledge up to a period of three days within a month to provide assistance in civil protection, provided that the civil protection authorities do not have sufficient powers. (2) 1In the event of a risk of delay, objects may be used by direct execution.

- (2) 1In the event of a risk of delay, goods may be used by direct execution. 2The Civil Protection Authority must inform the person concerned immediately if the use takes place in his absence and thereby cause disadvantages to him.

- 2The Civil Protection Authority must inform the person concerned immediately if the use takes place in his absence and thereby cause disadvantages to him. (3) Assistance can only refuse if he or she would have to fear undue health damage or violate higher-quality obligations.

- (3) Assistance can only be refused if they would have to fear undue damage to health or violate higher-quality obligations. (4) §§ 23 to 25 apply to persons who are involved in the assistance.

- (4) Paragraphs 23 to 25 apply mutatis mutandis to persons involved in the provision of assistance. § 17 Eviction, closure and security measures (1) 1The civil protection authorities may declare the areas affected or threatened by a disaster and their access and access routes to restricted areas.

- § 17 Clearance, blocking and security measures (1) 1The civil protection authorities may declare the areas affected or threatened by a disaster and their access and access routes to restricted areas. 2The declaration shall be made known by signs or in any other appropriate way, e.g. on the radio.

- 2The declaration shall be made known by signs or in any other appropriate way, e.g. on the radio. (2) 1Insofar as this is necessary to combat a disaster, the civil protection authorities may make orders to the persons present in restricted areas to evacuate, drain or secure the restricted area, in particular the place of operation.

- (2) 1Insofar as this is necessary to combat a disaster, civil protection authorities may, in relation to persons present in restricted areas, make arrangements to evacuate, drain or secure the restricted area, in particular the place of operation. 2Persons may be obliged to remove the vehicles they carry from the restricted area.

- 2Persons may be obliged to remove the vehicles they carry from the restricted area. (3)Persons who are not needed to provide assistance or to supply the affected population may not enter restricted areas without the approval of the civil protection authorities.

- 3. Persons who are not required to provide assistance or to provide care to the affected population may not enter restricted areas without the approval of the civil protection authorities. - Page 10 of 17 - (4) In the event of a risk of delay, measures may be taken in accordance with paragraphs 2 and 3 by means of direct execution.

- - Page 10 of 17 - (4) In the event of a risk of delay, measures may be taken in accordance with paragraphs 2 and 3 by means of direct execution. § 18 Compensation (1) 1At its request, the Civil Protection Authority shall compensate the person concerned, who has suffered or provided services, for the use of material, plant or assistance services in accordance with section 16.

- § 18 Compensation (1) 1At its request, the civil protection authority must compensate the person concerned, who has suffered a loss of property or has provided services, appropriately in cash for the use of property, works or assistance services in accordance with § 16. 2A right to compensation does not exist insofar as the person concerned or his or her property should be protected or if it can otherwise be expected to bear the disadvantage itself.

- 2Insofar as the data subject or his or her property should be protected or if he or she can otherwise be expected to bear the disadvantage himself, there is no entitlement to compensation. 3The compensation is determined by the Civil Protection Authority.

- 3The compensation shall be determined by the Civil Protection Authority. (2) Paragraph 1 shall apply mutatis mutandis if a third party, without being used in accordance with § 16, is:

