# 21.03.2023 entstanden.

- The following points show the justification of the methodology and the literature and source documentation. The structure of the article corresponds to the specifications of the "Requirements for the specialized work Part I".

- The structure of the technical article corresponds to the specifications of the "Requirements for the specialized work Part I. 1 Description of the methodology A qualitative approach was chosen for the processing of the task and the preparation of the specialized work, which guides and answers the problem step by step.

- 1 Description of the methodology A qualitative approach was chosen for the task and the preparation of the technical work, which guides and answers the problem step by step. The procedure was divided into several main steps.

- The procedure was divided into several main steps. Each of these steps consists of smaller, mutually building processes, the results of which were repeatedly compared and checked.

- Each of these steps consists of smaller, mutually building processes, the results of which have been repeatedly compared and checked. Figure 12 - Process steps of the applied methodology (own presentation) 2 Reason The qualitative approach has been used to solve the problem.

- Figure 12 - Process steps of the applied methodology (own presentation) 2 Reasons The qualitative approach has been used to solve the problem. Unlike quantitative methods based on numbers and statistics, the aim is to interpret non-numerical data in order to gain a better understanding.

