# 5.4.6

- Implementation ................................................................................................................21 6 Conclusion ................................................................................................................22 Bibliography ................................................................................................24 Abbreviations ................................................................................................................................................................................................28 List of figures ...................................................................................................................................................................................31 Annex A: Data sheet ................................................................................................................................................................................................................32 V Annex B: List of interviewees ....................................................................................................35 Annex C: List of professional fire brigades consulted ................................................................................36 Declaration of oath ..................................................................................37 Introduction A digital transformation has been mentioned for a number of years [1]. Fire brigades are not excluded from this technical progress.

- The fire brigade is not excluded from this technical progress. The developers of this technology take no consideration of the concerns of the fire brigade.

- The developers of this technology do not take into account the concerns of the fire brigade. It is absolutely necessary that fire protection deals with this change and actively shape the future.

- It is absolutely necessary that fire protection deals with this change and actively shape the future. "Without progressive digitalization and networking, a powerful fire brigade and a mobile rescue service are no longer conceivable in the future.

- "In the future, a powerful fire brigade and a mobile rescue service will no longer be conceivable without continuing digitalisation and networking. Only the use of digital opportunities will help rescuers in all areas to keep up with the requirements [2].

- Only the use of the digital possibilities helps the rescuers in all areas to keep up with the requirements. [2] On this summary, various speakers agreed at the VFDB 2019 in Ulm.

- Several speakers agreed on this conclusion at the VFDB 2019 technical meeting in Ulm. This digitalisation does not only include the networking of individual applications in the field of fire fighting.

- This digitalisation not only involves the networking of individual applications in the fire brigade. No, the integration of respiratory protection monitoring or the use of a drone is also covered by this complex concept of digitalisation.

- No, the integration of respiratory protection monitoring or the use of a drone will also be covered by this complex concept of digitalization. Furthermore, the use of so-called exoskeletons in the everyday life of the fire brigade has development potential.

- Furthermore, the use of so-called exoskeletons in the everyday life of the fire brigade has development potential. The industry shows here that the fire brigade can benefit from this innovation, since it has already found its application there and is no longer a vision.

- The industry shows here that the fire brigade can benefit from this innovation, since it has already found its application there and is no longer a vision. This work describes the current state of digitalisation in German as well as in a selection of European fire brigades.

- This paper describes the current state of digitalisation in Germany as well as in a selection of European fire brigades. Developments that are already in research status will be discussed.

- The focus will be on existing developments that are under research status. The focus will be on all proposals for the networking of respiratory protection monitoring, operational management and operational control in order to ensure that the professional fire brigade can keep up in the fast and unstoppable digital world.

- The focus is on all proposals for the networking of breathing protection monitoring, operation management and operation control, in order to ensure that the professional fire brigade can keep up in the snowy and unstoppable digital world. Note In this work, the generic masculinum is used for reasons of better readability.

- Note In this work, for reasons of better readability, the generic masculinum is used. Female and other gender identities are explicitly included as far as is necessary for the statement.

- Female and other gender identities are explicitly included, as far as is necessary for the statement. Digitalisation in Operations Service 2 2 Digitalisation in Operations Service "In general, the term digitisation refers to the changes in processes, objects and events that occur through the increasing use of digital devices.

- Digitalization in the field 2 2 Digitalisation in the field "In general, the term digitisation refers to the changes in processes, objects and events that occur as a result of the increasing use of digital devices. In the narrower sense, this means the first generation of digital representations of physical objects, of events or analogue media.

- This means, in a narrower sense, the first generation of digital representations of physical objects, of events or analog media. [3] Intelligent systems and their networking are changing our daily lives. This digitalization does not stop even before the general fire brigade and rescue system.

- This digitisation also does not stop before the general fire brigade and rescue system. Digital data and its extensive possibilities influence the work done both in handling damage cases and in the daily service.

- Both in dealing with damage cases and in the daily service business, digital data and their extensive possibilities influence the work. "Transfer of application knowledge and safe handling of digital media are [...] basic skills that need to be mastered [4].

- "The communication of application knowledge and the safe use of digital media are [...] basic skills that must be mastered.[4] The trend of digitisation in the fire and rescue sectors is particularly evident in the innovations Big Data, Internet of Things (IoT), Smart Textile, Smart Home and Telemedicine.

- The trend of digitisation in the fire and rescue sectors is particularly evident in the innovations Big Data, Internet of Things (IoT), Smart Textile, Smart Home and Telemedicine. The organisation of the fire brigade also adapts to the digital age.

- The organisation of the fire brigade also adapts to the digital age. eGovernance, robotics, drones and the use of real-time data as well as artificial intelligence are used daily.

- eGovernance, robotics, drones and the use of real-time data as well as artificial intelligence are used daily. "The processing and networking of the data, the management of the flood of information and new communication channels (infrastructure, spontaneous helpers and "smart volunteer fire brigades") become the challenge" [5].

- "The processing and networking of the data, the management of the flood of information and new communication channels (infrastructure, spontaneous helpers and "smart volunteer fire brigades") are becoming a challenge. [5] The terms digitisation, administration 2.0 and Industry 4.0 describe the links between different development strands.

- The concepts of digitalisation, administration 2.0 and Industry 4.0 describe the links between different development strands. These development strands include a dramatic miniaturization of computers, sensors and motors, an omnipresent Internet, increasing success in the creation of artificial intelligence (AI), increasingly precise and intelligent robotics as well as a associated rapid technical progress and price drop of the aforementioned components [6].

- These developments include a dramatic miniaturization of computers, sensors and motors, an omnipresent Internet, increasing success in the creation of artificial intelligence (AI), increasingly precise and intelligent robotics, as well as a associated rapid technical progress and price decline of the aforementioned components [6]. "What influence will a digitized and networked fire brigade world have in the future?

- "What influence will a digitized and networked fire brigade world have in the future? There are many opportunities open up, but also what risks have to be taken into account when it comes to digitalising the fire brigade everyday [4].

- What opportunities open up, but also what risks have to be taken into account when it comes to digitalising the fire brigade everyday [4]. In the following section, the topics mentioned in the task, which represent the current and future developments of the fire brigade, are described in more detail.

