# 2018.

- [Online]. Available: https://www.

- Available: https://www.bmbf.

- bmbf. en/upload_filestore/pub/Framework_Securityforschung.

- en/upload_filestore/pub/Framework_Sicherheitsforschung. pdf.

- pdf. [Access on 19 November 2019].

- [Access on 19 November 2019]. [42] Federal Office for Information Security, "IT-Grundschutz," [Online].

- [42] Bundesamt für Sicherheit in der Informationstechnik, "IT-Grundschutz," [Online]. Available: https://www.

- Available: https://www.bsi.

- (bsi. covenant.

- bund. de/DE/Topics/ITGrundschutz/ITGrundschutzStandards /ITGrundschutzStandards_node.

- en/DE/Topics/ITGrundschutz/ITGrundschutzStandards /ITGrundschutzStandards_node. html.

- html. [Access on 09 December 2019].

- [Access on 09 December 2019]. [43] V. Tomashek, "AMAGNO Digital Workplace,

- [43] V. Tomashek, "AMAGNO Digital Workplace, the 14th of September 2016. [Online].

- [Online]. Available: https://amagno.

- Available: https://amagno. de/digitisation-im-medium-functioning-only-with-acceptance-of-employees/13606/.

- de/digitisation-in-mid-level-functions-only-with-acceptance-of-the-employee/13606/. [Access on 19 November 2019].

- [Access on 19 November 2019]. [44] D.

- [44] D.A.

- A. L. Tim Wallroth, Interviewee, [Interview].

- L. Tim Wallroth, Interviewee, [Interview]. 22 October 2019.

- 22 October 2019. [45] Fire service regulations 800, information and communication technology in use, committee fire services, civil protection and civil defence (AFKzV), 2017.

- [45] Fire service regulations 800, information and communication technology in use, committee fire department affairs, civil protection and civil defence (AFKzV), 2017.Abbreviations 28 Abbreviations AML Advanced Mobile Location BBK Federal Office for Civil Protection and Disaster Relief BDBOS Federal Institute for Digital Radio of the Authorities and Organisations with Safety Tasks BHKG Act on Fire Protection, Assistance and Disaster Protection in North Rhine-Westphalia BMA Fire alarm system BOS Authorities and organisations with safety tasks BSI Federal Office for Information Security CBRN Chemical, Biological, Radiological and Nuclear CSA Chemical Protection Suit DSGV Data Protection Basic Regulation EU Union FSK Fire Protection Clothing FwDV Fire Service Regulation GG Basic Law GIS Geoinformation System GPS Global Position System ICAO International Civil Aviation Organisation IFR Research Institute for Fire and Rescue Technology Dortmund IoT Internet of Things (Internet of Things) KI Artificial Intelligence AirVO Air Transport Order PA Pressluftatmer SER Standard Operating Rule Abbreviations 29AS Unmanned Aerialt System UAV Unmanned Aerial AS Management UTM Vhicle Traffic Management System.

- Abbreviations 28 Abbreviations AML Advanced Mobile Location BBK Federal Office for Civil Protection and Disaster Relief BDBOS Federal Institute for Digital Radio (Bundesanstalt für Digitalfunk der Amtsamt und Organisationen mit Sicherheitsaufgaben BHKG Act on Fire Protection, Assistance and Disaster Protection in North Rhine-Westphalia BMA Fire alarm system BSI Federal Office for Safety in Information Technology CBRN Chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear CSA Chemical Protection Suit DSG Data Protection Basic Regulation EU European Union FSK Fire Protection Suit FwDV Fire Protection Gear FwDV Fire Protection Command GG Basic Law GIS Geoinformation System GPS Global Position System ICAO International Civil Aviation Organisation IFR Research Institute for Fire and Rescue Technology IoT Internet of Things (Internet of Things) KI Artificial Intelligence Air VO Aviation Order PA Press Luftatmer SER Standard Abbreviations 29 UAS Unmanned Aerial System UAV Unmanned Aerial Vehicle UTM UFDB Traffic Management System VFDB Association for the Promotion of the German Fire Protection e V. VPN Virtual Network Directory 30 Execution List 2 Execution. Werkfeuerwehr Infraserv GmbH & Co.

- V. VPN Virtual Private Network List of Illustrations 30 List of Illustrations Figure 2-1 Stuttgart Exo-Jacket (Image: author) ......................................................... 4 Figure 2-2 Exoskelett Cray+ (Image: German Bionic [13]) ..................................... 5 Figure 2-3 Design Study Ken Chen (Image: Yanko Design [16]) ................................... 6 Figure 2-4 Presentation Network Fire Brigade 4.0 (C. Lange [4]) ................................... 7 Figure 5-1 Project VISION (Presentation: Katrin Sommer [27]) Schedule of the advancing forces with pre-roped drone ..................................................... 14 Figure 5-2 Project SIRENE "Functional Representation" (Source: Presentation [28]) .. 15 Figure 5-3 Project CELIDON (Presentation: David Ahn [37]) Display in the mask with representation of the troops to each other (blue points) and the missing person (red point) ........................................................................................................... 18 Annex 31 Annex A: Survey sheet Annex B: Formation Interview partners Annex C: List of Exo-Jacket (Image: Authors)

- Höchst KG Industriepark Höchst, building C299 65926 Frankfurt/M.

- C299 65926 Frankfurt/M. Tel.

- Tel. 0173/1991490 Mail: juergen.

- 0173/1991490 Mail: juergen. godschalk@infraserv.

- godtschalk@infraserv.com Digitalisation in service – drones, exoskeletons and networking What is the state of the art with the German professional fire brigades, as with European fire brigades?

- com Digitalisation in service – drones, exoskeletons and networking What is the status of the German professional fire brigades, as with European fire brigades? Which developments are useful, which are already applicable?

- Which developments are useful, which can already be used? Create suggestions for how a professional fire brigade has to set up today in order to be able to implement the future developments.

- Create suggestions for how a professional fire brigade needs to set up today in order to be able to implement the future developments. In particular, make this clear when networking respiratory protection monitoring, operational management and operational control.

- Imagine this in particular with a networking of breathing protection monitoring, operation management and operation control. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I would be pleased if you could help me with the collection of some data for the research of my specialized work.

- Ladies and gentlemen, I would be pleased if you could assist me in collecting some data for the research of my work. I would like to thank you in advance for your cooperation and support and stay with your kind regards ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

