# 26.01.2015 (GVBl. S. 14).

- Ministry of Justice Rhineland-Palatinate, Landesgesetz über den Brandschutz, die allgemeine Hilfe und den Katastrophesschutz (Brand- und Katastrophesschutzgesetz - LBKG -) From 2 November 1981 as last amended by Article 15 of the Law of 19 December 2018 (GVBl. p. 448).

- 448). Legal sources 29 Ministry of Justice and for Europe and Consumer Protection of the State of Brandenburg, Act on the Granting of Anniversary Awards and Flat-rate Effort Replacements, the award of Medals for Loyalty Services and the Foundation of Honorary Signs in Fire and Civil Protection of 30 April 2019 (GVBl.

- Legal sources 29 Ministry of Justice and for Europe and Consumer Protection of the State of Brandenburg, Act on the Granting of Anniversary Awards and Flat-rate Effort Replacement, the Award of Medals for Loyalty Services and the Foundation of Honorary Signs in Fire and Civil Protection of 30 April 2019 (GVBl. I/19, [No. 9]).

- I/19, [No 9]).Ministry of the Interior of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia, Act on Fire Protection, Assistance and Civil Protection (BHKG) of 17 December 2015 (GV.

- Ministry of the Interior of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia, Act on Fire Protection, Assistance and Civil Protection (BHKG) of 17 December 2015 (GV. NRW.

- 886).

- 886).Ministry of the Interior of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia, Ordinance on Compensation of Members of Municipal Representations and Committees, 2014.

- Ministry of Interior of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia, Ordinance on Compensation of Members of Municipal Representations and Committees, 2014. Ministry of Interior, Building and Sports Saarland, Fire Brigade Compensation Ordinance (FwEVO) of 25 January 2008 as last amended by Ordinance of 17 September 2014 (Amtsbl.

- Ministry of Interior, Building and Sport Saarland, Fire Brigade Compensation Regulation (FwEVO) of 25 January 2008 as last amended by the Regulation of 17 September 2014 (Official Journal I, p. 384).

- I p. 384).Ministry of Interior, Building and Sport Saarland, Law on Fire Protection, Technical Assistance and Civil Protection in Saarland (SBKG) of 29 November 2006 as last amended by Law of 22 August 2018 (Amtsbl.

- Ministry of Interior, Building and Sports Saarland, Law on Fire Protection, Technical Assistance and Civil Protection in Saarland (SBKG) of 29 November 2006 as last amended by Law of 22 August 2018 (Amtsbl. I p. 674).

- I p. 674).Ministry of the Interior and Municipal Brandenburg, Act on Fire Protection, Assistance and Civil Protection of the State of Brandenburg - BbgBKG of 24 May 2004, as last amended by Article 2 of the Law of 19 June 2019 (GVBl.

- Ministry of the Interior and Municipal Brandenburg, Act on Fire Protection, Assistance and Civil Protection of the State of Brandenburg - BbgBKG of 24 May 2004, as last amended by Article 2 of the Law of 19 June 2019 (GVBl. I/19, [No 43], p.25).

- I/19, [No. 43], p.25).Ministry of Interior and Europe Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, Act on Fire Protection and Technical Assistance by the Fire Brigades for Mecklenburg-Vorpommern (M-V - BrSchG) as published on 21 December 2015 (GVOBl.

- Ministry of the Interior and Europe Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, Act on Fire Protection and Technical Assistance by the Fire Brigades for Mecklenburg-Vorpommern (M-V - BrSchG) as published on 21 December 2015 (GVOBl. M-V 2015, p. 612).

- M-V 2015, p. 612). Ministry of the Interior and Europe Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, Ordinance on the compensation of expenses and loss of earnings for the volunteers of the volunteer fire brigades and the compulsory fire brigades in Mecklenburg-Vorpommern (FwEntschVO M-V) vom 28.11.2013 (GVOBl.

- Ministry of the Interior and Europe Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, Ordinance on compensation for loss of expenses and earnings for the volunteers of the volunteer fire brigades and the compulsory fire brigades in Mecklenburg-Vorpommern (FwEntschVO M-V) vom 28.11.2013 (GVOBl. M-V 2013, p. 667).

- M-V 2013, p. 667).Ministry of the Interior and Sports of the State of Saxony-Anhalt, Fire Protection and Assistance Act of the State of Saxony-Anhalt (Brandschutzgesetz -BrSchG), as amended by the notice of 7 June 2001, as last amended by Section 1 of the Law of 12 July 2017 (GVBl.

- Ministry of the Interior and Sport of the Land of Saxony-Anhalt, Fire Protection and Assistance Act of the Land of Saxony-Anhalt (Brandschutzgesetz -BrSchG) as amended by the notice of 7 June 2001, as last amended by Section 1 of the Law of 12 July 2017 (GVBl. LSA p. 133).

- LSA p. 133).Ministry of the Interior and Sport of the Land of Saxony-Anhalt, circular for the reimbursement of expenses for volunteering or other voluntary work Berufene RdErl.

- Ministry of the Interior and Sport of the Land of Saxony-Anhalt, circular for compensation for expenses incurred in honorary or other voluntary work.

- ==References==

- 6. 2014 – 31.21-10041 (MBl.

- 2014 – 31.21-10041 (MBl. LSA 2014, p. 264).

- LSA 2014, p. 264).Ministry of Home Affairs, Digitalization and Migration Baden-Württemberg, Fire Brigade Act (FwG) as amended on 2 March 2010, as last amended by Article 12 of the Law of 21 May 2019 (GBl.

- Ministry of Home Affairs, Digitalization and Migration Baden-Württemberg, Fire Department Act (FwG) as amended on 2 March 2010, as last amended by Article 12 of the Law of 21 May 2019 (GBl. p. 161, 185).

- 161, 185).Ministry of the Interior, Rural Areas and Integration of the Land of Schleswig-Holstein, Act on Fire Protection and Fire Services (Brandschutzgesetz - BrSchG) From 10 February 1996, last amended Art.

- Ministry of the Interior, Rural Areas and Integration of Schleswig-Holstein, Act on Fire Protection and Fire Services (Brandschutzgesetz - BrSchG) From 10 February 1996, last amended Art. 18 LVO v. 16.01.2019, GMOBl.

- 18 LVO v. 16.01.2019, GMOBl. p. 30.

- 30. Legal sources 30 Ministry of the Interior, Rural Areas and Integration of the State of Schleswig- Holstein, Landesverordnung über die Vergleichung der Wehrführungen der freundlichen Fire Brigadeen und ihrer Stellvertretungen (Indemnification Regulation voluntary fire brigades - EntschVOfF) vom 28. März 2018.

- Legal sources 30 Ministry of the Interior, Rural Areas and Integration of the State of Schleswig- Holstein, Landesverordnung über die Vergleichung der Wehrführungen der Freiwilligen Feuerwehren und ihrer Stellvertreten (Indemnification Regulation voluntary fire brigades - EntschVOfF) vom 28. März 2018. Niedersächsisches Finanzgericht, Judgment of 24.08.2007, 1 K 11553/04.

- Niedersächsisches Finanzgericht, Judgment of 24.08.2007, 1 K 11553/04. Niedersächsischesministerium für Innernes und Sport, Niedersächsisches Gesetz über den Fireschutz und die Hilfedienst der Feuerwehr (Lower Saxony Fire Protection Act - NBrandSchG) From 18 July 2012 as last amended by Article 3 § 6 of the Act of 20.05.2019 (Nds.

- Niedersächsisches Ministry für Innernes und Sport, Niedersächsisches Gesetz über den Brandschutz und die Hilfedienst der Feuerwehr (Niedersächsisches Brandschutzgesetz - NBrandSchG) From 18 July 2012 as last amended by Article 3 § 6 of the Act of 20.05.2019 (Nds. GVBl.

- (OJ L 88, p. 88).

- 88). Sächsisches Landesarbeitsgericht, judgment of 20.05.2011, 3 Sat 579/10.

- Sächsisches Landesarbeitsgericht, judgement of 20.05.2011, 3 Sat 579/10. Sächsisches Staatsministerium des Inneren, fire brigade compensation decree of 28 December 1999 (SächsGVBl.

- Sächsisches Staatsministerium des Inneren, Fire Brigade Compensation Ordinance of 28 December 1999 (SächsGVBl. 2000 p. 15), which is governed by Article 13 of the Ordinance of 12 December 2001 (SächsGVBl.

- 15), as amended by Article 13 of the Regulation of 12 December 2001 (SächsGVBl. 2002 p. 3).

- 2002 p. 3). Saxon State Ministry of the Interior, Saxon Law on Fire Protection, Rescue Service and Civil Protection of 24 June 2004 (SächsGVBl.

- Saxon State Ministry of the Interior, Saxon Law on Fire Protection, Rescue Service and Civil Protection of 24 June 2004 (SaxonyGVBl. p. 245, 647), which was last amended by the Law of 25 June 2019 (SaxonyGVBl.

- 245, 647), as last amended by the Law of 25 June 2019 (SächsGVBl. p. 521).

- 521). Senator for Home Affairs, Bremisches Hilfesgesetz (BremHilfeG) of 21 June 2016 (Brem.

- Senator for Home Affairs, Bremisches Hilfesgesetz (BremHilfeG) of 21 June 2016 (Brem. GBl.

- GBl. 2016, 348), last §§ 61, 63, 64 and 65 as amended by Article 7 of the Law of 08 May 2018 (Brem.

- 2016, 348), last amended by Article 7 of the Law of 08 May 2018 (Brem. GBl.

- 149, 156).

- 149, 156).Satsverwaltungsverwaltung für Innernes und Sport, Gesetz über die Feuerwehren im Land Berlin (Feuerwehrgesetz - FwG) From 23 September 2003 as last amended by Article 1 of the Act of 09.05.2016 (GVBl.

- Senatsverwaltung für Inneres und Sport, Gesetz über die Feuerwehren im Land Berlin (Feuerwehrgesetz - FwG) From 23 September 2003 as last amended by Article 1 of the Act of 09.05.2016 (GVBl. p. 240).

- 240). Senatsverwaltung für Innernes und Sport, Ordinance on the fixing of lump sums as expenses replacement for the members of the volunteer fire brigades of Berlin From 20 December 2017 (FRFeuerwAuslEV).

- Senatsverwaltung für Inneres und Sport, Ordinance on the fixing of lump sums as a replacement for the expenses for the members of the volunteer fire brigades of Berlin From 20 December 2017 (FRFeuerwAuslEV).Sozialgericht Bayreuth, Judgment of 03.08.2005, S 5 KR 223/00.

- Sozialgericht Bayreuth, Judgment of 03.08.2005, S 5 KR 223/00. Thüringer Ministry of the Interior and Communal Affairs, Thuringian Fire Brigade Compensation Ordinance (ThürFwEntschVO) of 21 December 1993, as last amended by Article 15 of the Regulation of 11 December 2001, GVBL.

- Thüringer Ministry of the Interior and Municipalities, Thüringer Fire Brigade Compensation Ordinance (ThürFwEntschVO) of 21 December 1993, as last amended by Article 15 of the Ordinance of 11 December 2001, GVBL. 2002, p. 92.

- 2002, p. 92. Thüringer Ministry of the Interior and Municipalities, Thüringer Law on Fire Protection, General Assistance and Civil Protection (Thüringer Fire and Civil Protection Act - ThürBKG -) of 5 February 2008, as last amended by Article 1 of the Law of 29 June 2018 (GVBl.

- Thüringer Ministry of the Interior and Municipalities, Thüringer Law on Fire Protection, General Assistance and Civil Protection (Thüringer Fire and Civil Protection Act - ThürBKG -) of 5 February 2008, as last amended by Article 1 of the Law of 29 June 2018 (GVBl. p. 317).

- 317). Constitutional Court of Rhineland-Palatinate, judgment of 18.03.1992, VGH 3/91.

- Verfassungsgerichtshof Rheinland-Pfalz, Judgment of 18.03.1992, VGH 3/91. Verwaltungsgericht Gießen, Judgment of 19.08.2002, Az.

- Administrative Court of Gießen, judgment of 19 August 2002, paragraph 10 E 2167/02.

- 10 E 2167/02. Verwaltungsgerichtshof Baden-Württemberg, Judgment of 08.05.1990, 10 S 343/90.

- Verwaltungsgerichtshof Baden-Württemberg, Judgment of 08.05.1990, 10 S 343/90. Annex 31 Annex A Questionnaire Annex 32 B Overview Query Kommune Bundesland Interlocutor Arnstadt Thüringen Stadtbrandinspektor Bad Nauheim Hessen Stadtbrandinspektor Bad Soden Hessen Stlv.

- Hessian District District District district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district city district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district district

- Hess-Stahl-Stahlgebirge-Einrichtung von Hess-Stahlgebirge-Stahlgebirge-Stahlgebirge-Stahlgebirge-Stahlgebirge-Stahlgebirge-Stahlgebirge-Stahlgebirge-Stahlgebirge-Stahlgebirge-Stahlgebirge-Stahlgebirge-Stahlgebirge-Stahlgebirge-Stahlgebirge-Stahlgebirge-Stahlgebirge-Stahlgebirge-Stahlgebirge-Stahlgebirge-Stahle-Stahlgebirgebirge-Stahle-Stahlgebirgebirge-Stahlgebirge-Stahle Stahlgebirgebirge-Stahle-Stahlgebirgebirgebirge-Stahle-Stahle-Stahle-Stahle-Stahlgebirgebirgebirgebirgebirge-Stahle-Stahle-Stahle-Stahle-Stahle-Stahlgebirgebirgebirgebirgebirgebirgebirgebirgebirgebirge-Stahle-Stahle-Stahle-Stahle No scheme Lower Saxony Individual scheme by statute of the municipality North Rhine-Westphalia Individual scheme by statute of the municipality Rhineland-Palatinate Monthly scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme Saxony-Anhalt Individual scheme by statute of the municipality Schleswig- Holstein Monthly scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme Thüringen Monthly scheme No scheme No scheme If main scheme no scheme no scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme If main scheme no scheme no scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme If main scheme no scheme no scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme Saxony-Anhalt Individual scheme by statute of the municipality of Schleswig- Holstein Monthly scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme No scheme

- If the municipality's statutes of Bremen are not in accordance with the budget of Hamburg, compensation for expenses in accordance with the budget of Hessen, monthly compensation for expenses in accordance with the regulations of the municipality of Hessen, monthly compensation for expenses in accordance with the regulations of the municipality of Rheinland-Pfalz, monthly compensation for expenses in accordance with the regulations of the municipality of Hessen, monthly compensation for expenses in accordance with the regulations of the municipality of Hessen, monthly compensation for expenses in accordance with the regulations of the municipality of Hessen, monthly compensation for expenses in accordance with the regulations of the municipality of Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, Germany, Germany, Germany, Germany, Germany, Germany, Germany, Germany, Germany, Germany, Germany, Germany, Germany, Germany, Germany, Germany, Germany, Greece, Greece, Greece, Greece, Greece, Greece, Greece, Greece, Greece, Greece, Greece, Greece, Greece, Greece, Greece, Greece, Greece, Spain, Ireland, Ireland, Ireland, Ireland, Ireland, Ireland, Ireland, Ireland, Ireland, Ireland, Ireland, Ireland, Ireland, Ireland, Ireland, Ireland, Ireland, Ireland, Ireland, Ireland, Ireland, Ireland, Ireland, Ireland, Ireland, Ireland, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg,

- All ideas taken directly or indirectly from external sources are marked as such. The work has not yet been submitted to an audit authority in the same or similar form.

- The work has not yet been submitted to an audit authority in the same or similar form. Eschenburg, 17.12.2019 ................................................................. Harald Stürtz

