# 10.

- A forest fire monitoring system is a personnel-occupied fire watch tower or a camera- supported automatic forest fire detection system. § 2 Behaviour in the forest (1) Each person has to behave in the forest in such a way that the forest and its community are not endangered by fires or fire-fighting measures are not hindered.

- § 2 Behaviour in the forest (1) Each person has to behave in the forest in such a way that the forest and its community are not endangered by fires or fire-fighting measures are not hindered. (2) Forest paths, including access routes to the forest, are to be kept free for fire and rescue vehicles all year round.

- 2. Forest routes, including access routes to the forest, shall be kept free for fire and rescue vehicles all year round. Vehicles parked on these routes which prevent fire and rescue vehicles may be towed at a charge.

- Carriages which prevent fire and rescue vehicles in these ways may be towed at a charge. (3) Forest visitors shall comply with the orders of the competent authorities to prevent and combat forest fires.

- (3) Forest visitors shall be subject to the orders of the competent authorities to prevent and combat forest fires. § 3 Smoking in the forest (1) It is prohibited to leave or to throw away rough, glimmering tobacco residues or objects, including from structures, trains or vehicles of any kind, in a careless manner, in the forest or at a distance of less than 50 metres from the forest.

- §3 Smoking in the forest (1) It is prohibited to leave or to throw away any raw, glimmering remnants of tobacco or objects, whether or not from structures, trains or vehicles of any kind, in the forest or at a distance of less than 50 metres from the forest. (2) The prohibition provided for in paragraph 1 shall not apply.

