# 4.

- 3. Paragraph 2 shall not apply in the case of triggered forest fire levels 4 or 5.

- 3. Paragraph 2 shall not apply in the case of triggered forest fire hazard levels 4 or 5. 4. In the cases referred to in paragraph 2, points 1 and 2, the intention to set up an open fire for the said measures or works shall be given to the forestry authority at least one working day in advance.

- 4. In the cases referred to in points 1 and 2 of paragraph 2, the intention to set up an open fire for the measures or works referred to above shall be given to the forestry authority at least one working day in advance. The forestry authority may impose requirements on preventive fire protection measures or may refuse the establishment of an open fire or other fire-causing action.

- The forestry authority may impose requirements on preventive fire protection measures or may refuse to set up an open fire or any other fire-causing action. (5) All fires set up in accordance with paragraph 2 shall be extinguished before leaving in such a way that fire and embers are completely extinguished.

- (5) All fires set up in accordance with paragraph 2 shall be extinguished before leaving in such a way that fire and embers are completely extinguished. (6) An authorisation pursuant to section 29 (1) or (5) of the Landeswaldgesetz for camping, parking caravans, campers, sales stands or for other forms of forest use may only be issued if a threat to the forest by fire is excluded or can be excluded by conditions or conditions.

- (6) An authorisation pursuant to § 29 (1) or (5) of the Landeswaldgesetz for camping, parking caravans, campers, stalls or for other forms of forest use may only be shared if a threat to the forest by fire is excluded or can be excluded by conditions or conditions. § 5 Grain harvesting at the forest (1) When harvesting cereals, rape or other mixed crops during forest fire stages 4 and 5, a 6 metre wide wound strip shall be placed on fields less than 50 metres apart from the edge of the forest - page 4 of 15 - telebar after cutting of the mower crops from the land owner, authorized users or authorised persons on the harvest area opposite the forest.

- § 5 Cereal harvesting in the forest (1) When harvesting cereals, rapeseed or other mower fruits during forest fire stages 4 and 5, a 6 metre wide wound strip shall be placed on fields less than 50 metres apart from the edge of the forest - page 4 of 15 - telbar after cutting of the mower fruits from the land owner, authorised owner or authorised representative on the harvest area returned to the forest. (2) The requirement of paragraph 1 shall not apply to the forest authority in accordance with § 13 paragraph 1 point 2 if the area between the mower field and the forest is prevented by its nature from covering a field fire on the forest.

- 2. The requirement of paragraph 1 shall not apply in accordance with the definition of the forestry authority referred to in paragraph 1 (2) where, because of its nature, the area lying between the mooring field and the forest prevents a fire from spreading over the forest. (3) Paragraphs 1 and 2 shall apply mutatis mutandis to the deposition of straw and other combustible agricultural products.

- (3) Paragraphs 1 and 2 shall apply mutatis mutandis to the deposition of straw and other combustible agricultural products. Section 2 Obligations of the forest owner § 6 General obligations of the forest owner (1) The task of the forest owner is to:

