# 2.

- (2) Appropriate measures for the prevention of forest fire protection are in particular the installation and maintenance of protective strips, wound strips, forest fire bars, extinguishing water sampling points and a road network suitable for fire-fighting and rescue vehicles, as well as the setting up of warning signs for forest fire risk.

- (2) Appropriate measures of preventive forest fire protection are in particular the installation and maintenance of protective strips, wound strips, forest fire bars, extinguishing water sampling points and a road network suitable for fire-fighting and rescue vehicles as well as the setting up of signs to the forest fire risk. (3) The costs of measures to prevent forest fires shall be borne by the forest owner taking into account the applicable restrictions in accordance with § 13 paragraph 3 and § 14.

- (3) The costs of measures to prevent forest fires shall be borne by the owner of the forest, taking into account the restrictions in force in accordance with § 13 (3) and § 14. The forestry authority may use forest owners, owners and operators of facilities which pose a special fire risk to the forest in an appropriate proportion to the reimbursement of the costs.

- The forestry authority may use forest owners, owners and operators of facilities which pose a particular fire risk to the forest in an appropriate proportion to the reimbursement of costs. (4) The forest owner shall be responsible for securing an extinguished fire site.

- (4) The forest owner is responsible for securing an extinguished place of fire. In particular, he has to ensure that no new forest fire arises from an extinguished place of fire.

- In particular, it has to ascertain that no new forest fire arises from an extinguished fire site. The authority of the forestry authority in accordance with § 13 paragraph 3 remains unaffected.

- 5. The forest owner shall tolerate measures of forest fire protection in his forest, which shall be carried out by the forest authority within the scope of its competence and authority in accordance with § 11 (3), § 12 (1) sentence 2 and paragraph 2, § 13 (3), §§ 14, 16 (1) and § 18.

- (5) The forest owner must tolerate measures of forest fire protection in his forest, which are carried out by the forest authority within the framework of its competence and authority in accordance with § 11 paragraph 3, § 12 paragraph 1 sentence 2 and paragraph 2, § 13 paragraph 3, §§ 14, 16 paragraph 1 and § 18. For this purpose, the forest authority and its agents shall be granted unimpeded access to the forest areas.

- For the purpose of classifying forests in areas at risk of forest fire and drawing up forest fire maps, the forest owner shall provide the forest authority with the necessary data in an appropriate and usable form.

- For the purpose of classifying forests into forest fire risk areas and the production of forest fire maps, the forest owner must provide the forest authority with the necessary data in a suitable and usable form. § 7 Wound and protective strips on railway lines, motorways and roads (1) In forests with high and medium forest fire risk, a 2.5 metre wide wound strip is to be laid and kept at a distance of up to 15 metres from the foot of the railway body or from the outer edge of the paved road on both sides of motorways and federal roads, on other roads to Festlegun - page 5 of 15 - to the forest authority.

- § 7 Wound and protective strips on railway lines, motorways and roads (1) In forests with high and medium forest fire risk, a 2.5-metre wide wound strip must be laid and maintained on both sides of the track on used railway lines (including Draisinen operations), along motorways and federal roads, on other roads to Festlegun- - page 5 of 15 - to the forest authority, at a distance of up to 15 metres from the foot of the railway body or from the outer edge of the paved road. (2) The protective strips must be constructed and maintained between the body of the railway or paved road and wound strip.

- 2. Protective strips shall be placed and maintained between the body of the track or the paved road and the wound strip; the forestry authority may also adopt provisions in accordance with the first sentence for the forest adjacent to the wound strip at a depth of 50 metres.

- The forestry authority may also make provisions under the first sentence for the forest adjacent to the wound strip at a depth of 50 metres. (3) In forests with a low risk of forest fire, the forestry authority may make provisions under paragraphs 1 and 2 for the installation and maintenance of wound or protective strip.

- 3. In forests at low risk of forest fire, the forestry authority may adopt provisions in accordance with paragraphs 1 and 2 for the installation and maintenance of wound or protective strips. (4) Wound or protective strips on railway lines, motorways and roads shall only be constructed and maintained in related forest areas with a total size of more than 5 hectares, irrespective of the proportion of individual forest owners.

- (4) Wound or protective strips on railway lines, motorways and roads shall only be constructed and maintained in related forest areas with a total size of more than 5 hectares, irrespective of the proportion of individual forest owners. Areas with easily combustible vegetation, where fire can be spread over adjacent forests, shall be included in these measures.

- Areas with easily combustible vegetation, where fire can be spread over adjacent forests, must be included in these measures. (5) Limits to hardwood or mixed stocks with over 50 percent hardwood content of more than 50 metres depth on railway lines, motorways and roads, so the wound strips can defold.

- 5. Limits to hardwood stocks or mixed stocks with more than 50 percent hardwood content of more than 50 metres deep on railway lines, motorways and roads, so the wound strips can defold. § 8 Forest fire bars In enclosed forest areas with a high risk of forest fire and a minimum size of 1 000 hectares, forest fire bars or forest fire bars systems shall be established and maintained in accordance with the regulations of the forestry authority.

- § 8 Forest fire bars In closed forest areas with a high risk of forest fire and a minimum size of 1 000 hectares, forest fire bars or forest fire bars systems must be installed and maintained in accordance with the regulations of the forest authority. § 9 Forest fire control equipment (1) Forest owners must provide equipment and funds for forest fire control according to the local forest fire risk.

- § 9 Forest fire control equipment (1) According to local forest fire risk, forest fire control equipment and equipment must be provided by forest owners. The equipment and equipment must be stored separately and at hand.

- The equipment and means shall be stored separately and at hand. The forestry authority shall, in agreement with the forest owners and the competent supervisory authorities of the counties and county-free cities, determine where such equipment depots are to be set up and how they are to be equipped.

- The forestry authority, in agreement with the forest owners and the competent supervisory authorities of the counties and county-free cities, shall determine where such equipment depots are to be set up and how they are to be equipped. (2) Devices used to combat forest fires shall not be removed, used for other purposes or rendered unusable.

- (2) Devices used to combat forest fires may not be removed, used for other purposes or rendered unusable. § 10 Information on fire-resistant behaviour (1) Forest owners, businesses and facilities which permanently employ persons in forests or their immediate vicinity outdoors must inform them at least once a year before the forest fires are committed about the prevention of and behaviour in forest fires.

- § 10 Information on behaviour to protect against fire (1) Forest owners, businesses and facilities, which permanently employ persons in forests or their immediate vicinity in the open air, must be informed at least once a year before the forest fires, about the prevention of and behaviour in forest fires. (2) Workers, who are only temporarily employed in forests, must be informed in the forest fire season before their first use.

- Section 3 Obligations and powers of the forest authorities § 11 Information on fire hazards to forests - page 6 of 15 - (1) The forest authorities must, as preventive measures against forest fires, inform the population by appropriate means about fire hazards to forests.

- Section 3 Obligations and powers of the forest authorities § 11 Information on fire exposure to forests - page 6 of 15 - (1) The forest authorities must, as preventive measures against forest fires, inform the population by appropriate means about fire exposure to forests. (2) The information includes in particular explanations on:

