# 4.

- In accordance with paragraph 1, the forestry authority is authorized to establish warning boards and signs in forests and at the entrances to forests in consultation with the authorized users, which indicate the danger of forest fire or to require behaviour which is appropriate for fire protection.

- (3) In accordance with paragraph 1, the forestry authority shall have the power to set up warning boards and signs in forests and at the entrances to forests in consultation with the authorised users, indicating the danger of forest fire or to require fire protection-related behaviour. § 12 Deletion water sampling points (1) In or at forest areas with high and medium forest fire risk, natural or artificial extinguishing water sampling points accessible by fire-fighting vehicles must be installed, maintained and marked by signposts.

- § 12 Landfill sites (1) In or in forest areas with a high and medium forest fire risk, natural or artificial landfill sites accessible to fires by fire-fighting vehicles must be installed, maintained and marked by signposts. The forest authority shall determine the measures in consultation with forest owners and in agreement with the rights of use of the waters, the local authority responsible for the municipal defence and the competent supervisory authorities of the counties and non-circular cities.

- The forestry authority shall determine the measures in consultation with the forest owners and in agreement with the owners of the water, the local authority responsible for the municipal defence and the competent supervisory authorities of the counties and county-free cities. (2) In and on forests with low forest fire risk, the forestry authority may adopt provisions according to paragraph 1 for the installation and maintenance of extinguishing water sampling points.

- (2) In and on forests with a low risk of forest fire, the forestry authority may adopt provisions according to paragraph 1 for the installation and maintenance of extinguishing water collection points. § 13 Order of protective measures (1) The forestry authority shall adopt provisions on:

