# 8.

- the installation, maintenance and marking of extinguishing water sampling points in accordance with § 12. (2) Unless the obligations under paragraph 1 and § 6 paragraphs 1 and 4 are met, the forestry authority may order appropriate measures to prevent and combat forest fires.

- (2) Unless the obligations referred to in paragraphs 1 and 6 (1) and (4) are met, the forestry authority may order appropriate measures to prevent and combat forest fires. (3) Unless the obligations referred to in paragraphs 1 and 6 (1) and (4) are met and the success of an order referred to in paragraph 2 cannot be guaranteed in due time due to the acute fire hazard or inaccessibility of the land owner, owner or authorised agent, the forestry authority shall have the power to have the measure carried out at the expense of the land owner, owner or authorised representative.

- (3) Insofar as the obligations under paragraphs 1 and 6 (1) and (4) are not met and the success of an order under paragraph 2 cannot be guaranteed in due time due to the acute fire hazard or inaccessibility of the land owner, owner of the land or authorised representative, the forestry authority shall be entitled to have the measure carried out at the expense of the land owner, owner of the land or authorised representative. If a land owner, authorised owner of the land or authorised representative is not to be determined, the costs shall be borne by the land.

- If an area owner, authorised or authorised representative is not to be determined, the costs shall be borne by the country. § 14 Forest fire control plants (1) The installation, use and maintenance of forest fire control plants is the responsibility of the country, represented by the forest authority.

- § 14 Forest fire control plants (1) The land is responsible for the installation, use and maintenance of forest fire control plants, represented by the forest authority. (2) The forest authority may require forest owners with a forest holding of 100 hectares or more or other beneficiaries according to the ratio and to the amount of the benefits resulting from the forest fire control.

- 2. The forestry authority may require forest owners with a forest holding of 100 hectares or more or other beneficiaries to replace costs by the ratio and to the extent of the benefits resulting from the forest fire control. 3. Forest fire control plants shall not be affected by other plants, in particular wind turbines, in their function.

- 3. Forest fire control plants shall not be affected in their function by other plants, in particular wind turbines. In the case of appropriate plans which may affect the function of forest fire control plants, agreement shall be reached at an early stage with the forestry authority in the context of spatial planning, building plan or building permit procedures.

- In the case of appropriate planning, which may affect the function of forest fire monitoring plants, agreement with the forest authority must be established at an early stage in the context of spatial planning, building plan or building permit procedures. § 15 Leading Forests Offices for Forest Fire Protection (1) On a proposal from the forest authority, the Chief Forests Office shall determine the leading forest offices for forest fire protection and their territorial jurisdiction.

- § 15 Leading Forests Offices for Forest Fire Protection (1) On a proposal from the Forestry Authority, the Chief Forests Offices for Forest Fire Protection and their territorial jurisdiction are established. (2) A leading forest protection office is responsible for forest fire protection for several forest offices, such as triggering and lifting of forest fire risk stages as well as cooperation with the fire and civil protection authorities of the counties and non-circular cities.

- (2) A forest fire control office performs certain tasks of forest fire protection for several forest offices, such as triggering and lifting of forest fire hazard stages as well as cooperation with the fire and civil protection authorities of the counties and county-free cities. § 16 forest fire risk areas and risk levels - page 8 of 15 - (1) The forest authority divides the forest areas of the country into the following forest fire risk areas: A = areas with high forest fire risk, B = areas with medium forest fire risk, C = areas with low forest fire risk.

- § 16 Forest fire risk areas and risk levels - page 8 of 15 - (1) The highest forest authority divides the forest areas of the country into the following forest fire risk areas: A = areas with high forest fire risk, B = areas with medium forest fire risk, C = areas with low forest fire risk. The assignment is to be published in the Official Journal for Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania.

- The assignment is to be published in the Official Journal for Mecklenburg-Vorpommern. (2) During the forest fire season, the Leitforstamt für den Waldbrandschutz sets the following forest fire hazard levels daily: hazard level 1 = low forest fire risk, hazard level 2 = forest fire risk, hazard level 3 = increased forest fire risk, hazard level 4 = high forest fire risk, hazard level 5 = highest forest fire risk.

- (2) During the forest fire season, the Forest Fire Protection Office determines the following levels of forest fire hazards daily: level 1 = low forest fire risk, level 2 = forest fire risk, level 3 = increased forest fire risk, level 4 = high forest fire risk, level 5 = highest forest fire risk.

- 3. The installation which forms an integral part of this Regulation shall apply to the triggering and lifting of forest fire hazards and the associated information obligation of the authorities involved.

- (3) The installation, which is an integral part of this Regulation, applies to the triggering and lifting of forest fire hazard stages and the associated information obligation of the authorities involved. § 17 Blocking of forest areas for the prevention of forest fires (1) The forestry authority may prohibit the entering and driving of forest areas in the event of high or highest forest fire risk (hazard levels 4 and 5).

- § 17 Blocking of forest areas for the prevention of forest fires (1) The forest authority may prohibit the entry into and driving into forest areas in the event of high or highest forest fire risk (hazard levels 4 and 5). The forest authority shall establish the conduct with the Land Councils or Mayors.

- For this purpose, the Forestry Authority shall establish the consultation with the Land Councils or Lord Mayors. (2) The order to do so and its repeal shall be made public by the Forestry Authority.

- 3. The blocking shall not apply to forest owners, forest authorities or persons acting on their behalf or with their authorization.

- (3) The blocking does not apply to forest owners, forest authorities or persons acting on their behalf or with their permission. § 18 Forest Fire Intervention Maps A forest fire intervention map is a topographical map on a scale of 1 : 50 000 which represents the total forest, the network of paths, the towns and roads as well as forest fire-relevant information.

- § 18 Waldbrand Einsatzkarte A Waldbrand Einsatzkarte is a topographical map in scale 1 : 50 000, which represents the total forest, the network of paths, the villages and roads as well as forest fire-relevant information.

- Proximity is regulated by the Waldbrandrunderlass according to § 22. Waldbrand Einsatzkarten are updated by the forest authorities at least every five years for the entire forest as well as published in digital and analogue form.

- Forest fire maps are updated by the forest authorities at least every five years for the entire forest as well as published in digital and analogue form. Section 4 Measures to combat forest fires § 19 General rules of conduct for forest fires (1) The general obligations under §§ 22 and 23 of the Fire Protection and Assistance Act M-V apply accordingly to forest fire protection.

- Section 4 Measures to combat forest fires § 19 General rules of conduct in the case of forest fires (1) The general obligations under Sections 22 and 23 of the Fire Protection and Assistance Act M-V apply mutatis mutandis to forest fire protection. - Page 9 of 15 - (2) If a forest fire has been detected and extinguished without the participation of the forest owner, the fire shall be notified immediately of the fire and its deletion.

- - Page 9 of 15 - (2) If a forest fire has been detected and extinguished without the participation of the forest owner, the fire shall be immediately informed of the fire and its extinguishing. If the forest owner is not reachable or unknown, the forest authority shall be informed instead.

- If the forest owner is not to be reached or unknown, the forest authority must be informed instead. § 20 Cooperation in forest fire control (1) The forest authority organises all measures of preventive forest fire protection in cooperation with forest owners, operators of transport facilities, enterprises and facilities from which forest fire hazards arise.

- § 20 Cooperation in the fight against forest fire (1) The forest authority organises all measures of preventive forest fire protection in cooperation with forest owners, operators of transport facilities, enterprises and facilities from which forest fire hazards arise. (2) The municipalities, districts and non-circular cities organize the measures of forest fire protection in cooperation with the forest authority in accordance with the Fire Protection and Assistance Act M-V, including a coordinated alarming and information system.

- (2) In accordance with the Fire Protection and Assistance Act M-V, the municipalities, counties and non-circular cities organise the measures of forest fire protection in cooperation with the forestry authority, including a coordinated alarming and information system. (3) In the counties and non-circular cities with forest areas with a high and medium forest fire risk, working groups for forest fire protection shall be formed by the Land Councils and Mayors.

- (3) In the counties and non-circular towns with forest areas which have a high and medium forest fire risk, working groups for forest fire protection are to be formed by the Land Councils and Mayors. Fire brigades, integrated control centre, forest owners, railway companies as well as other enterprises, authorities, associations and institutions, whose participation in forest fire protection seems necessary.

- These include fire brigades, integrated control centre, forest owners, railway companies as well as other companies, authorities, associations and institutions whose participation in forest fire protection seems necessary. The members of this working group are appointed by the Landrat or Lord Mayor.

- The members of this working group shall be appointed by the Land Council or the Lord Mayor. (4) The formation of working groups as referred to in paragraph 3 shall be carried out in counties and non-circular towns with forest areas at low risk of forest fire.

- (4) Whereas the formation of working groups as referred to in paragraph 3 shall be carried out in rural areas and non-circular towns with forest areas which have a low risk of forest fire; (5) The working groups on forest fire protection shall establish measures to protect forest fires, in particular the fight against forest fires, to ensure the interaction of forces and resources;

- (5) Whereas the working parties on forest fire protection shall lay down measures to ensure the cooperation of forces and resources in the protection of forests, in particular the fight against forest fires; whereas, if a working party is not formed, this cooperation shall be regulated in another appropriate way;

- If the formation of a working group is waived, this cooperation must be regulated in another appropriate way. The Land Councils and Mayors are responsible.

- (6) The Land Councillors and Lord Mayors, in consultation with the State Office for Central Missions and Technology of the Police, Fire and Civil Protection, ensure that the current data situation is recorded in the forest fire protection application documents on areas that are heavily affected by fighting or otherwise contaminated.

- (6) The Land Councillors and Mayors, in consultation with the State Office for Central Missions and Technology of the Police, Fire and Civil Protection, ensure that the current data situation is recorded in the application documents for forest fire protection to combat medium-burdened or otherwise contaminated areas. They regulate the fight against forest fires on these areas in special deployment plans.

- They regulate the fight against forest fires on these areas in specific deployment plans, which should specify how the emergency and auxiliary forces will stop or limit a forest fire in these areas with the lowest possible risk to life and limb.

- It is necessary to define how the emergency and auxiliary staff can stop or limit a forest fire in these areas with the lowest possible risk to life and limb. § 21 Powers of the forest authority in the fight against fire (1) If fire protection measures are required in order to prevent an imminent threat, the forest authority may order its implementation without the prior consent of the forest owner.

- § 21 Powers of the forestry authority in the fight against fire (1) If fire protection measures are required in order to prevent an imminent danger, the forestry authority may order its implementation without the prior consent of the forest owner. The costs are borne by the country.

- (2) The highest-ranking representative of the forest authority, who is present at the fight against a forest fire, supports and advises the fire brigade's operational management in accordance with § 18 of the Fire Protection and Assistance Act M-V. Will the disaster case according to § 15 of the State Disaster Protection Act in the version of the notice dated 15 July 2016 (GVOBl.

- (2) The highest-ranking representative of the forest authority, who is present in the fight against a forest fire, supports and advises the fire brigade's operational management in accordance with § 18 of the Fire Protection and Assistance Act M-V. If the disaster case is determined in accordance with § 15 of the State Disaster Protection Act as published on 15 July 2016 (GMOBl. M-V p. 611), § 16 of the State Disaster Protection Act shall also apply.

- Section 5 Interdepartmental cooperation - page 10 of 15 - in the field of forest fire protection § 22 Interdepartmental cooperation The Oberste Waldbehörde together with the highest legal authority according to § 27 of the Fire Protection and Assistance Act M-V, in conjunction with § 79 of the municipal constitution and the highest civil protection authority, issues an administrative regulation on the further facilities for cooperation between the forest authorities and the authorities responsible for fire, catastrophen protection and rescue services in the country, the counties and non-circular cities, as well as municipalities and their facilities of public fire brigades in the prevention and control of forest fires (Waldbrandrunderlasslass).

- Section 5 Interdepartmental cooperation - Page 10 of 15 - in the field of forest fire protection § 22 Interdepartmental cooperation The Oberste Waldbehörde together with the highest legal authority according to § 27 of the Fire Protection and Assistance Act M-V in conjunction with § 79 of the municipal constitution and the highest civil protection authority issues an administrative regulation on the further facilities for cooperation between the forest authorities and the authorities responsible for fire, catastro- phene protection and rescue services in the country, the counties and non-circular cities as well as municipalities and their institutions of the public fire brigades in the prevention and control of forest fires (Waldbrandrunderlass).

- The Waldbrandrunderlass is to be published in the Official Journal for Mecklenburg-Vorpommern. Section 6 Final provisions § 23 Infringements (1) Infringements within the meaning of § 51, paragraph 5, point 7 of the Landeswaldgesetz, which pre-emptively or negligently

