# 19.

- (2) Infringements pursuant to paragraph 1 may be punishable by a fine of up to EUR 75 000.

- (2) Infringements pursuant to paragraph 1 may be punished with a fine of up to EUR 75 000. (3) The forest authority or the state-recognised municipal forest administration is responsible for the prosecution and prosecution of irregularities in accordance with section 51, paragraph 9, of the Landeswaldgesetz, provided that the functions of the competent forest authority have been entrusted to it in accordance with section 41, paragraph 2, sentence 1 of the Landeswaldgesetz.

- (3) The forest authority or the state-recognised municipal forest administration is responsible for the prosecution and prosecution of irregularities in accordance with § 51 paragraph 9 of the Landeswaldgesetz, insofar as the tasks of the competent forest authority have been assigned to it in accordance with § 41 paragraph 2 sentence 1 of the Landeswaldgesetz. § 24 Entry into force, expiry This Regulation shall enter into force on 1 January 2017.

- § 24 Entry into force, expiry This Regulation shall enter into force on 1 January 2017. At the same time, the Forest Fire Protection Regulation of 14 February 1994 (GVOBl.

- At the same time, the Waldbrandschutzverordnung of 14 February 1994 (GVOBl. M-V p. 366), which was introduced by the Ordinance of 28 April 1994 (GVOBl.

- 366), as amended by the Regulation of 28 April 1994 (GVOBl. M-V p. 599).

- 599) - page 12 of 15 - Annex (to § 16 (3)) - Report system for forest fire hazards (WGST) in Mecklenburg-Vorpommern (M-V) - page 13 of 15 - - page 14 of 15 - - page 15 of 15 -

