# 2.1

- Alarm and deployment plans General A corresponding alarm and deployment planning leads to a targeted preparation for a possible deployment scenario and supports faster coordination in case of damage. This is particularly true in the area of larger deployments, such as an extensive vegetation-brand.

- This is particularly true in the area of larger deployments, such as an extensive vegetation-burn. Alarm and deployment planning should therefore include at least: • Setting out of the outreach area • Setting out requirements for alarming crew and deployment equipment • Setting up collection and deployment areas • Addresses and accessibility of persons and facilities with which to cooperate at the deployment site • Locations and possibilities for alerting special forces and deployment equipment • Plan of extinguishing water supply and extraction water promotion • Communication plan • Information on reporting to departments and authorities The planning should be supplemented by further deployment documents, e.g. deployment plans for special protection areas or protection objects.

- The alarm and deployment planning should therefore include at least: • Definition of the exit area • Definitions for alarming crew and deployment equipment • Establishment of collection rooms and deployment rooms • Addresses and accessibilitys of persons and facilities with which, if necessary, it is necessary to cooperate at the deployment site • Locations and possibilities for alarming special forces and deployment equipment • Plan of extinguishing water supply and extinguishing water promotion • Communication plan • Information on reporting to services and authorities The planning should be supplemented by further deployment documents, e.g. deployment plans for special protection areas or protective objects. At municipal level In areas with corresponding forest stock, large and open corridors (wisdoms and fields) and the possible risk from vegetation fires, it is one of the obligatory tasks of the municipalities to set up alarm and deployment plans, to continue and to coordinate with each other on the basis of § 3 paragraph 1 no. 3 ThürBKG.

- At municipal level In areas with appropriate forest population, large and open plots (fields and meadows) and the possible danger from vegetation fires, it belongs on the basis of § 3 paragraph 1 No. 3 ThürBKG to the obligatory tasks of the municipalities to put alarm and operational plans on and to continue to coordinate with each other. No.

