# 2.2

- Rescue and fire protection cards To support the forces used as well as the operational management with regard to further decisions on position detection and the tactical procedure, corresponding rescue and fire protection cards of the ThüringenForst can be included.These are created via the ThüringenForst both in digital form and analog as an application card.

- These are produced via the ThüringenForst both in digital form and analogue as an assignment card. The maps can be requested from the fire brigades via the local district council office.

- The maps can be requested from the fire brigades via the local Landratsamt. Important information is stored in these maps, such as:

- Important information is stored in these maps, such as • location designations • forest and forest roads accessible for truck vehicles • turning possibilities for vehicles • connection points of the forest and forest roads to the public transport network • forest rescue points • extinguishing water ponds, extinguishing water reservoirs, water sampling points It is recommended to carry corresponding versions of the rescue and fire protection maps on the respective vehicles (digital or in paper form) in order to enable better coordination of the forces in case of damage.

- • Location designations • Forest and forest roads accessible for trucks • Turning possibilities for vehicles • Connection points of forest and forest roads to the public transport network • Forest rescue points • Fire-fighting ponds, fire-fighting water reservoirs, water extraction points It is recommended to carry corresponding versions of the rescue and fire-fighting maps on the respective vehicles (digital or in paper form) in order to enable better coordination of the forces in case of damage. The presence of the maps also gives the forces on site an opportunity to better orient themselves in the forest.

- The presence of the maps also gives the local forces an opportunity to better orient themselves in the forest. Thus, this guide can contribute significantly to the more effective use of fire brigades.

- Thus, this guide can contribute significantly to the more effective use of fire brigades. One possibility for the reproduction of cards in case of use for external units is to be ensured organizationally.

- A possibility of copying the cards in case of use for external units is to be ensured organizationally. The cards are also available in the central control centres and are usually integrated in the operational control system used.

