# 2.5

- Management organisation The management organisation forms a pillar of the management system according to the fire service regulations (FwDV) 100 "Management and management in operation". The management organisation determines the tasks of the managers and specifies the type and number of management levels.

- The management organisation determines the tasks of the executives and sets out the nature and number of management levels. The management organisation ensures that the work of the operational management runs smoothly and continuously in all types and sizes of hazards or damage events.

- The management organisation shall ensure that the operations management's work runs smoothly and continuously for all types and sizes of hazards or damage events. The operations management and thus the management organisation shall be in its structure and scope dependent on the hazards, the damage event and the units to be led.

- The operational management and thus the management organization depends in their structure and scope on the danger situation, the damage event and the units to be led. The involvement of specialist consultants is also useful.

- The involvement of specialist consultants is also useful. In the context of the fight against vegetation fire, especially in the event of growing events, it is necessary to create a clear and defined management structure and also to plan ahead (and to integrate into the alarm and deployment planning).

- In the context of the fight against vegetation fire, especially in the event of growing events, it is necessary to create a clear and defined management structure and also to plan ahead (and to integrate it into the alarm and deployment planning).A corresponding phase of deployment is usually useful due to the size of the event, spatial extent, difficult conditions, extensive or difficult situation detection and/or confusion.

- A corresponding phase of deployment is usually useful due to the size of the event, spatial extent, difficult conditions, extensive or difficult situational exploration and/or confusingness. Here a sectional formation is recommended as follows: • Application section (EA) Firefighting • Application section (EA) Firewater supply • Application section (EA) Supply area It is useful that not only the forces and resources are collected in the EA supply room, but also, depending on the size or actual need, care is taken about catering, supply with operating materials, logistics, accommodation, support etc.

- A sectional formation is recommended as follows: • Application phase (EA) Firefighting • Application phase (EA) Fire-fighting water supply • Application phase (EA) Supply room It is useful that not only the forces and means are collected in the EA Supply Room, but also, depending on the size or actual need, be taken care of food, supply with operating materials, logistics, accommodation, care etc. It is also recommended to structure this in sub-application phases (UEA) if necessary.

- It is then also recommended to structure this in sub-instructions (UEA) if necessary. Depending on the requirement and situational dependence, further deployments (e.g. me--dicinical rescue, CBRN-dangerous defense, etc.) or in the deployments further deployments can be formed and thus the structure and the management levels can be specified and adjusted.

- Depending on the requirements and situational dependence, further sections of the operation (e.g. mezinische Rettung, CBRN-Gefahrtwehr etc.) or in the sections of the operation can be formed and thus the structure and the management levels are specified and adjusted. Here the 2-5 rule for the managers must be observed.

- Figure 4 Example of a pre-planned management organisation LtS EL Operations line Firefighting Firefighting water supply EA EA EA EA UEA UEA UEA UEA UEA Delivery space Application section X FwDV 100 Table of contents

