# 2.7

- Training and further training Fundamentals • Training and further training is the foundation for successful management of operations in the daily and exceptional event of damage • Responsibilities and obligations to carry out training and further training in various statutory regulations or fire brigade regulations • Landkreise are required to carry out training and exercises in accordance with § 6 para. 1 no. 5 and Nr. 6 ThürBKG in the field of inter-regional security or in the field of civil protection (cf. §32 ThürBKG and ThürKatSVO) • in particular exercises of different situations involving various aid organisations or other units of the municipality or even disaster protection are necessary for the fight against vegetation fires • are necessary for obtaining/refreshing knowledge and skills in certain areas • the vegetation fire control should be integrated in the courses TM I and TM II (training seminars for circuit instructors at TLFKS) • after possibility of using external offers by third parties • the vegetation fire control should be addressed to all managers prior to the management fire.

- • use third party external offers if possible, provided that specialist expertise is available in management continuing training Especially the managers at all levels should deal with the topic of vegetation fire control. Since such deployments usually have to be managed over a longer period of time, with increased power and resources requirements as well as an extensive management structure, the initial phase is especially essential for the success of the deployment.

- Since such operations usually have to be managed over a longer period of time, with increased demand for strength and resources as well as an extensive management structure, the initial phase is especially essential for the success of the operation. Locally responsible leaders have to master the situational exploration and the development of sectional formation and command.

- The local leaders have to master mainly the situational exploration and the subsequent sectional formation and commanding. Overhappened procedure must be avoided, since wrong decisions in areas with few roads/paths, narrow vegetation, we nig extinguishing water and extinguishing water sampling points are usually irreversible.

- Excessive action is to be avoided, since wrong decisions are usually irreversible in areas with little roads/paths, narrow vegetation, we nig extinguishing water and extinguishing water sampling points. Here fire brigades with a high proportion of forest or agricultural land are primarily required.

- Here, fire brigades with a high proportion of forest or agricultural land are primarily required. The district should control this and, based on it, offer and carry out cross-municipal training.

- The district should control this and offer and carry out cross-municipal trainings based on it. Exercises • are used to check the readiness and functioning of planned structures and operations • to check the level of training of the forces • to promote the cooperation of the participants Table of contents

