# 3.3

- Spread behaviour The propagation behaviour of the respective fire types is different and is also influenced by several factors, e.g. • amount of combustible material • dryness of the combustible material • topographical conditions • wind influences The intensity and spread of the fire can develop and strengthen mas-siv, even changes in direction by turning the wind are possible and to be taken into account.

- • Amount of combustible material • Dryness of combustible material • Topographical conditions • Wind influences Especially in the case of emerging wind, the intensity and propagation of the fire can develop and strengthen mas- siv, also changes in direction by turning the wind are possible and to be taken into account. Fires in slope or steep slopes, as they occur in mountainous areas, are particularly critical.

- Fires in slopes or steep slopes, as they occur in mountainous areas, are particularly critical. Please note (see Figure 9): • rapid and extreme fire propagation uphill by thermal treatment of the fire type spread ground fire on open area, e.g. stubble field 0.2 km/h to 11 km/h ground fire in the forest 10 m/h to 1.2 km/h full fire in the forest up to several km/h trunk fire limited to individual trunks earth fire very slow, several meters per day, independent of the wind, circular spark flight/flight fire up to several 100 m or kilometers!

- Attention should be paid to this (see Figure 9): • fast and extreme fire propagation uphill by thermal treatment of the fire type spread ground fire on open space, e.g. stubble field 0.2 km/h to 11 km/h ground fire in the forest 10 m/h to 1.2 km/h full fire in the forest up to several km/h trunk fire limited to individual strains earth fire very slowly, several meters per day, independent of the wind, circular spark flight/flight fire up to several 100 m or kilometers! vegetation • rolling down of embers and burning components down • Attention: Also down or downcasting of stones/Geröll valleyward possible • Fire control is usually not effective and dangerous!

- Vegetation • Rolling down of embers and burning components down • Attention: Also rolling down or falling down of stones/Geröll down the valley possible • Fire fighting is usually not effective and dangerous! (see Chapter 3.7)

