# 3. Grundlagen

- the VegBbk 26 27 Attention! Figure 14 Forest fire set in a backpack • rakes, hoes for soil processing • laying a wound strip on forest soils • sharp cut hood cuts through roots, or removes bushes (branding) A sole use of hand tools is usually not targeted, after-extinguishing with water is essential.

- Figure 14 Forest fire set in the backpack • rakes, hoes for soil processing • laying a wound strip on forest soils • sharply ground hide cuts roots, or removes bushes (branding) A sole use of hand tools is usually not goal-oriented, a re-extinguishing with water essential. Furthermore, for a defensive use tactic also tear-in hooks, branch saws, motor chains and similar can be used to create wound strips in the forest or to remove burning material.

- In addition, for a defensive use tactic, tear-in hooks, branch saws, chains and similar can be used to create wound strips in the forest or to remove burning material. Simple means and measures for fire fighting can also be very effective, e.g.: • Ejection or knock-out, e.g. with coniferous tree branches • Ejection of small fires • Deleting with small extinguishers Forest fire sets for fire fighting • consist mostly of 2-3 D-ray tubes and D-pressure hoses as well as a C-DCD distributor (incl. transition pieces) • are packed in hose carrier baskets or backpacks Also provisionally or self-composed comparable sets are suitable to effectively carry out fire fighting in vegetarians and to train effective measures even in vehicles with small water tank in the initial phase.

- Simple means and measures for firefighting can also be very effective, e.g.: • Ejection or ejection, e.g. with coniferous tree branches • Ejection of small fires • Deleting with small extinguishers Forest fire sets for firefighting • mostly consist of 2-3 D-ray tubes and D-pressure hoses as well as a C-DCD distributor (incl. transition pieces) • are packed in hose carrier baskets or backpacks Also provisional or self-assembled comparable sets are suitable to carry out the fire control in vegetarian fires effectively and also in the first phase effective measures for vehicles with small water tank. On the country's own LF20-KatS the loading module Waldbrand with the following equipment is carried (according to DIN 14800-18 annex 10) with the following equipment: Information on the approach with the forest fire sets: • Tubes with beam pipe can be removed from the backpack or by folding the backpack • Water supply to the C-DCD distribution by means of previously installed C-sweaking vehicles are available in different types of fire hoses or fire hoses.

- On the country's own LF20-KatS (in accordance with DIN 14800-18 page 10) the loading module Waldbrand is carried with the following equipment: Information on the procedure with the forest fire sets: • Tubes with jet pipe can be removed from the backpack side or by folding the backpack • Water supply to the C-DCD distributor through previously laid C hoses, fed by vehicles or B pipes with corresponding distributor Extinguishing backpacks for fire control On the market, various extinguishing backpacks in some different sizes are available.The backpacks have a tank of about 20 litres (depending on the Versi) and manufacturer.

- The rucksacks are equipped with a tank of about 20 litres (depending on the manufacturer and manufacturer). The water is sprayed out of the backpack via a hand pump, usually combined with an extinguisher ejection device (nozzle or jet).

- The water is sprayed out of the backpack via a hand pump, usually combined with an extinguishing agent ejection device (nozzle or jet), which is used in smaller hall fires/ground fires or for re-extinguishing work to specifically apply water (e.g. in the case of gluten nests).

- Use: For smaller hall fires/ground fires or for re-extinguishing work in order to purposefully apply water (e.g. in the case of glutnesters). Wetting agents can also be used to increase the penetration depth of the extinguishing agent.

