# 3.5

- Pump & Roll operation Pump & Roll describes the ability of a vehicle that can be moved simultaneously during the extinguishing water discharge. To effectively apply this variant in case of use, it requires • technical requirements of the vehicle (vehicle must be technically capable) • tactical requirements of use (firefighting must therefore be safe and possible) • personnel requirements (staff must be trained and instructed) Procedure in case of use • D-hose at pump output coupling • D-line over the vehicle mirror forward (safe with work line, e.g. mast drop or Prusik knots) • pump indent and transport water, while slowly moving the vehicle forward • during the slow journey can be delivered by the extinguisher crew in front of the vehicle • drive along the fire bay from the anchor point and extinguish the fire by water discharge • unit leader moves at the level of the extinguisher group • further troupes with manuals (and 2.

- In order to apply this variant effectively in case of use, it is necessary to: • technical requirements of the vehicle (vehicle must be technically capable) • tactical conditions of use (firefighting must be safe and possible) • personnel requirements (staff must be trained and instructed) procedure in case of use • D-hose at pump output coupling • D-line over the vehicle mirror forward (safe with work line, e.g. mast drop or Prusik knots) • pump indent and convey water, while slowly moving the vehicle forward • during the slow journey can be delivered by the extinguishing team in front of the vehicle What's more • from the anchor point along the fire hem and extinguish the fire by water release • unit leader moves at the level of the extinguishing team • further troupes with hand tools (and 2nd jet pipe) carry out re-exting work, alternatively 2.

- ==References====External links==* Official website* Official website* Official website

- Vehicle with beam tube behind the 1st vehicle • Fight the flame front sideways and thus from the sides (via the flanks) "one fan" Further information The actual applicability of the pump & roll capability in the vegetation fire fighting is dependent on the vehicle, since sometimes too high speeds (usually from about 6 km/h) have to be driven to use the permanently installed feu- erschreibelpump, driven by the vehicle engine.

- Vehicle • Fight the flame front sideways and thus from the sides (via the flanks) "one fan" Further information The actual applicability of the pump & roll capability in the vegetation fire fighting is dependent on the vehicle, since sometimes too high speeds (usually from about 6 km/h) must be driven to use the permanently installed fire-fighting pump driven by the vehicle engine. However, speeds from 6 km/h are too fast for the foot-long fire-fighting with jet pipe next to the vehicle.

- However, speeds from 6 km/h are too fast for walking firefighting with jet tube next to the vehicle. The actual suitability of the respective vehicle must be checked (or the pumping ability and the speed to be driven in the context of the tender of vehicles should be defined further).

- The actual suitability of the respective vehicle must be checked (or the pump & roll capability and the speed to be driven as part of the tender procedure for vehicles should be defined in more detail). A water discharge via the thrower in pump & roll operation is technically possible for some vehicles.

- A water discharge via the thrower in pump & roll operation is technically possible for some vehicles. Due to the too high water discharge, however, this is innefficient and water is wasted.

- However, due to the too high water release, this is innefficient and water is wasted. In addition, this represents an unnecessary risk in relation to UVV.

- In addition, this represents an unnecessary risk in relation to the UVV. • Pump & Roll requires close coordination between the operator and the operator as well as the operational force • use matching hand signs for forward/reverse/stop • practice pump & roll operation regularly • take care of safety when fighting the belt from the black area • Never move the vehicle in front of the deleted flank!

- • Pump & Roll requires close coordination between the operator and the operator as well as the operational force • use matching hand signs for forward/reverse/stop • practice pump & roll operation regularly • observe safety in belt control from the black area • never move with the vehicle before the deleted flank! • work water-saving, pay attention to flow rates and if necessary.

- • Work water-savingly, pay attention to flow rates and, if necessary, regulate!

- • Pay attention to securing the vehicle (if necessary 2.

- • Pay attention to securing the vehicle (if necessary 2nd pipe or rapid attack)!

- Figure 15 Extinguishing backpack Description Standard Number of particle filtering half mask EN 149 FFP 2 DIN EN 149 10 Protective goggles, close to the eye, portable in combination with the fire helmet, also suitable for spectacle wearers DIN EN 166 3 Pressure hose D 25-15-KL1-2-K DIN 14811 4 C-D Transition piece DIN 14341 2 Hollow jet tube without handle, with fixed coupling D; flow rate Q of about 100 l/min DIN EN 15182 2 Distribution CK DIN 14345 1 Attention!

- Figure 15 Extinguishing backpack Designation Standard Number of particle filtering half mask EN 149 FFP 2 DIN EN 149 10 Protective goggles, close to the eye, portable in combination with the fire helmet, also suitable for spectacle wearers DIN EN 166 3 Pressure hose D 25-15-KL1-2-K DIN 14811 4 C-D Transition piece DIN 14341 2 Hollow beam tube without handle, with fixed coupling D; flow rate Q of about 100 l/min DIN EN 15182 2 Distribution CK DIN 14345 1 Attention!

