# 5.6

- What possibility is the best? Dangers for by respiratory toxins anxiety reaction spread atomic radiation chem.

- Hazards for by respiratory toxins Anxiety reaction Spread atomic radiation chemical substances disease/ injury explosion electricity collapse/ crash Which dangers must be combated?

- Substances Disease/Injury Explosion Electricity Fall / Crash Which dangers must be combated? Human Animals Environment Material values What dangers must be protected against?

- Humans Animals Environment Property values What dangers do forces need to protect themselves from? Manschaft Device not relevant The hazard matrix is exemplary and generally applicable to all damage scenarios.

- Manschaft Device not relevant The hazard matrix is exemplary and generally applicable for all damage scenarios.In the special case of vegetation fire, not all or only in certain conditions are actually present (e.g. atomic radiation, electricity).

- In the specific case of the vegetation fire, not all or only in certain conditions are actually present all dangers (e.g. atomic radiation, electricity). The greatest danger in the case of vegetation fires is usually the spread.

- The greatest danger in the case of vegetation fires is usually the spread. Depending on steep slopes or close to the fire lying settlements, farmhouses or other objects to be protected, further dangers can be detected.

- Depending on steep slopes or settlements close to the fire, farmsteads or other objects to be protected, further dangers can be identified. In particular, the security of the forces must be taken into account.

- In particular, the safety of the forces must be taken into account, as further information in this chapter will be referred to.

