# 5.3

- What dangers must the forces protect themselves from? Depending on the dangers recognized on the basis of the hazard matrix, the capabilities for the forces must not be neglected and especially taken into account!

- Depending on the hazards identified on the basis of the hazard matrix, the conditions for the emergency personnel should not be neglected and should be taken into account in particular.

- It is referred to the above-mentioned remarks. In principle, a rescue service protection of the forces, especially in the event of longer-term events or in the respiratory operation, should be established.

- In principle, a rescue service security of the forces, especially in case of prolonged events or in respiratory protection, must be established. In order to relieve the regular rescue service of the affected area and not to bind in the long term, planned structures, e.g. of installed SEG units or by sub-units of the KatS-SBZ, can be integrated here.

- In order to relieve the regular rescue service of the affected area and not to bind in the long term, planned structures, e.g. of installed SEG units or by sub-units of the KatS-SBZ, can be integrated here. A protection of the forces can be carried out e.g. as follows: • suitable PPE • suitable extended PPE, e.g. set of crash protection • (air-independent) breathing protection • define special danger areas or restricted areas and communicate to the forces • adapted/special training • distance to the danger points/principles • retreat to safe areas (safety zones) • suitable and sufficient food and fluid supply for forces (see the section 6.4) • sufficient breaks for forces The listing is not final and should only show possibilities.

- Protection of the forces can be carried out e.g. as follows: • suitable PPE • suitable extended PPE, e.g. set of crash protection • (air-independent) breathing protection • define special danger areas or restricted areas and communicate them to the forces • adapted/special training • distance to the danger points/focuses • retreat to safe areas (safety zones) • suitable and sufficient food and fluid supply for forces (see Chapter 6.4) • sufficient breaks for forces The listing is not final and should only show possibilities. The protection of the forces used must be carried out appropriately and in most cases the vegetation fire control has top priority.

- In the case of emergency alarms, emergency alarms must be carried out in accordance with the emergency alarms and emergency alarms, and in most cases of emergency alarms, emergency alarms must be given priority. Safety rules In the case of emergency alarms, the following safety rules have been developed, which should be taken into account when selecting the emergency alarms in connection with the outcome of the emergency response: • Vehicles must be placed in the direction of escape, so that, in the event of a possible change, an escape can be ensured at any time. • Vehicles must be kept free to use them as escape routes or as a way of getting there for other forces. • Encounter traffic should be avoided and a one-way control system for the arrival and departure of vehicles in the area of operation (in the case of emergency compartments or water withdrawal) should be preferred. E.g.

- In the event of a change in the location of the vehicles in the area of use (in the case of provision rooms or water) • for self-protection reasons it must always be possible to set up another C- or D-pipe or the S-pipe (for example in case of a change in the location of the vehicles in the area of use) attack!

- • Secure the anchor point, e.g. with S-pipe • Never attack without an anchor point over the flanks! Ensure communication (communications) • Connecting to the operational line/superior management level and within the unit is particularly important • There is no connection, there is a great risk of sudden changes in the situation being over-speeded • Communication is important for tactic coordination or for further messages/informaties Escape routes • each mission section must have a previously selected escape route • Escape route must be known to all emergency personnel • Escape route should be low in fire load and lead to a safety zone L ookout Observers set up A nchor point Anchor point C ommunication Communication ensure E scape routes Escape routes S afety zones Security zones Attention!

- Ensure communication (communications) • Connection to the command/superior management level and especially important within the unit • There is no connection, there is a risk of sudden changes in the situation being over-exploited • Communication is important for the tactic coordination or for further messages/informaties Escape routes • each mission section must have a previously selected escape route • Escape route must be known to all emergency personnel • Escape route should be as low as possible and lead to a security zone L ookout Observers set A nchor point Anchor point C ommunication Ensure communication Escape routes Escape routes S afety zones Security zones Attention!

