# 5.4

- What are the options for security? The following options or tactical options for security exist: In the case of firefighting of vegetation fires, there is usually a completely different hazard than in the case of the classic building fire, which also has a significant impact on the operational tactics.

- The following options or tactical variants for security are fundamental: In the case of firefighting of vegetation fires, there is usually a completely different danger than in the case of the classic building fire, which also has a significant effect on the operational tactics. Tactical variants (possibilities) of vegetation fire fighting In the case of vegetation fire fighting, one distinguishes fundamentally in two tactical varieties, which can also be used in combination, depending on the location on site: Vegetation fire defensive tactics offensive tactics let fire run attack with... ... hand tool ... jet tube wound strip create foam barrier combined tactics What measures and thus which tactics can be used, in addition to the rate of propagation and the existing vegetation as well as approaches, topography etc. in connection with the situation found, also according to the flame length.

- Tactical variants (possibilities) of the vegetative fire control In the vegetative fire control one distinguishes fundamentally in two tactical varieties, which, depending on the location on site, can also be used in combination: Vegetative fire defensive tactics offensive tactics let fire run attack with... ... hand tool ... jet tube wound strip create foam barrier combined tactics What action and thus which tactics can be used is in addition to the propagation speed and the existing vegetation as well as movements, topography etc. in connection with the situation found even after the flame length. Here at general note: Defensive tactics A defensive tactics means that direct fire control does not take place, since • this is not possible in the necessary speed, • it is foreseeable that the fire can not spread further due to topographic obstacles or circumstances or • the danger for the forces of the use is too large.

- Here's a general note: Defensive tactics A defensive tactics means that direct fire fighting does not take place, since • it is not possible in the necessary speed, • it is foreseeable that the fire cannot spread further due to topographical obstacles or circumstances, or • the danger for the forces is too great. Possible defensive tactics: • let fire run • put on wound strips • allow foam barrier to run fire If, for example, the fire moves on a green strip, a path or a water, and in the short term, a coordinated and powerful extinguishing attack can no longer be carried out, it may be a tactical decision to let fire run into these areas (as the fire cannot spread and/or disappear there).

- Possible defensive tactics: • let fire run • put on wound strips • put on foam barrier Let fire run If, for example, the fire can be moved on a green strip, a path or a water, and in the short time a coordinated and powerful extinguishing attack can no longer be accomplished, it may be a tactical decision that fire can run into these areas (because the fire there cannot spread further and/or extinguishes). • Monitor areas in the wind direction, • further fire by flying fire/sparking flight must be extinguished immediately Place wound strips describe surfaces that are fire-free and over which the fire cannot spread further.

- • Monitoring areas in the wind direction, • Other fires by flying fire/sparkling must be immediately extinguished Wound strips apply Wound strips describe surfaces that are free of fire load and over which the fire cannot spread further. They can be applied in various ways, e.g.: • by plowing with agricultural or forestry equipment • by tearing up the ground by means of hand tools • by clearing trees or flammable vegetation with machines • the measures need time and must be in line with the spreading behaviour of the fire • due to the time requirement and the associated safety flame length Preferred tactics up to approx. 1 meter (huft-high) offensively use of hand tools or fire trucks and small extinguishers up to approx. 2 meters (mans-high) offensive use of C- or D-ray tubes, in the rule of D-ray tubes sufficient from 2 meters rather defensively than offensively combat (e.g. fire front) is extremely explosive and only in exceptional cases of sufficient blasting.

- They can be applied in different ways, e.g.: • by plowing with agricultural or forestry equipment • by tearing up the soil by means of hand tools • by clearing trees or combustible vegetation with machines • the measures need time and must be in line with the spreading behaviour of the fire • due to the time requirement and the associated safety flame length Preferred tactics Procedure up to approx. 1 meter (huft-high) offensive Use of hand tools or fire trucks and small extinguishers up to approx. 2 meters (mans-high) offensive Use of C or D-ray tubes, usually D-ray tubes sufficient from 2 meters more defensive than offensive Control (e.g. fire front) is extremely risky and only in exceptional cases with sufficient water supply and the use of several beam tubes (e.g. beam position) from 3 meters more defensively than offensive (e.g. fire front) is extremely risky and only in exceptional cases with sufficient water supply and the use of several beam tubes is carried out.

- Figure 24 Tactical possibilities in vegetation fire Attention! Table of Contents

