# 5. Beurteilung

- The wound strip must be placed at a sufficient distance to the fire • a wound strip always begins at an anchor point • a wound strip should be monitored to prevent the fire from spreading over it (detachment) • the wound strip must be completely free of flammable material to prevent the fire from spreading and thus to stop the vegetation fire – a non-suitable wound strip wastes resources and does not lead to the desired success of use Procedure when creating the wound strip The width of the wound strip depends on the type of fire and must be about twice as wide as the length of the flame.

- With a forest in full fire with trees of for example 30 m height, it makes little sense to put a wound strip in the middle of the forest (expense, take time into account).

- 30 m height makes little sense to put a wound strip in the middle of the forest (expense, take into account time). The wound stiffening is first prepared in simple width and then extended to the two-fold width (of the flame length) by further troops/teams.

- The wound stiffening is first prepared in a simple width and then extended to the two-fold width (of flame length) by further teams/teams. If necessary, an existing path can be used and quickly cleared or widened in order to represent extensive and time-consuming measures of the production of a wound strip more efficiently.

- It is possible to use an existing method and quickly clear or widen it to represent extensive and time-consuming measures of the production of a wound strip. Depending on the tactical setup and the actual means of use, a group to create a wound stripe can be equipped as follows: The alternative equipment of the hose crew with extinguishing backpacks – and consequently the safety of the extinguishing readiness for the forces used – is due to the indirect measures, usually remote and remote from the flame front, not necessarily required man-made means of use for the vegetation fire-fighting task GF - leads the tactical unit, is responsible for the safety of the unit MA - the machinist can support the AT or WT/ST staining of the engine chain saw (MKS) cleaning of the planned wound strip of trees, shrubs etc. ATM if necessary.

- This tool can be used as an example of the following: The alternative equipment of the hose crew with extinguishing backpacks – and consequently the safety of the extinguishing readiness for the forces used – is due to the indirect measures, usually remote and remote from the flame front, not necessarily required- man-ship means of use to combat vegetation fire-fighting task GF - leads the tactical unit, is responsible for the safety of the unit MA - the machinist can, as required, support the AT or WT/ST chain saw (MKS) clean the planned wound strip of trees, shrubs etc. ATM if necessary Axt, Pulaski, Wiedehopfhacke supports the ATF, handling of trees, shrubs etc. ME if necessary Axt, Pulaski, Wiedehopfhacke, i.e. fire tool, i.e. Brows, Brows, Brows, Brows, etc.

- This can still be done in case of doubt and is to be assessed at the end position- or order-related. Possible uses of other authorities/organisations for the creation of wound strips: • clearing device of the THW • forest or agricultural equipment of land or forest owners • mountain and clearing tanks of the Bundeswehr • machines of external companies (e.g. harvester) foam barrier apply • effective to prevent the spread of a ground fire • at least 50 cm wide barrier (medium foam) – keep in mind!

- Uses of other authorities/organisations to create wound strips: • THW clearing device • Forest or agricultural equipment of land or forest owners • Mountain and clearing tanks of the Bundeswehr • Machines of external companies (e.g. harvester) apply foam barrier • effectively to prevent the spread of a ground fire • at least 50 cm wide barrier (medium foam) – Please keep in mind! • Vegetation must not be too high so that the fire does not jump over the foam barrier • Surfaces in wind direction should be monitored (deletion readiness) • Fire can spread in the ground (moor), constant control behind the foam - lock is necessary • Use of foam media with the lower water authority to clarify, ideally in the context of the preparation of use (e.g. in drinking water reserves) • Do not underestimate the corresponding demand of foam media – the measure is only effective with sufficient foam medium stock!

- • Vegetation must not be too high so that the fire does not jump over the foam barrier • Surfaces in wind direction should be monitored (deletion readiness) • Fire can spread in the ground (moor), constant control behind the foam is necessary • Use of foam with the lower water authority to clarify, ideally in the context of the preparation of operations (e.g. in drinking water protection areas) • Do not underestimate the corresponding need of foams – the measure is only effective with sufficient foam supply! Offensively oriented tactics An offensively oriented tactic describes all measures that are directly connected with an attack on the fire and all supporting measures for this.

- Offensive tactics An offensive tactics describes all measures that are directly linked to an attack on the fire as well as all supporting measures. Possible tactical approaches for direct fire fighting:

