# 2.

- Depending on the location, the procedure can be carried out • by firefighting teams with hand tools and extinguishing backpacks, • by water-guided vehicles in pump & roll operation or by rapid pump & roll operation or • by the use of firefighting teams with hose lines. In case of a static and non-mobile attack, such as the use of hose conductions, attention must be paid to the coverage width, necessary hose material, etc.

- In case of a static and non-mobile attack, such as the use of hose conductions, attention must be paid to the coverage width, necessary hose material, etc. • an attack against the main propagation direction or in case of emerging wind is particularly dangerous (explosion speed and working in heat and smoke of the fire) • attack on the flame front only up to max.

- • an attack against the main direction of propagation or in the event of an emerging wind is particularly dangerous (speed of propagation and working in the heat and smoke of the fire) • an attack on the flame front only up to a maximum of 2 meters of flame heights and in the case of a wind still, otherwise the danger to the forces due to the spread of the fire and the smoke is too high.

- 2 meters of flame height and in the case of stillness of the wind, otherwise the danger to the forces of the fire and the smoke is too high. There is a danger of life by the overrolling of the fire or the inclusion of the unit by the fire!

- The first is the danger of overrolling the fire or the inclusion of the unit by fire! (Figure 26) • Alternatively with the wind from the black area or over the flanks attack) Possible use of emergency vehicles fire-fighting vehicles/tank-extinguishing vehicles • are suitable vehicles with at least 1000 litres tank volume • LF/TLF can be used for direct fire-fighting, however, the access to the locations should be considered, as heavy TLF (e.g. TLF 4000) are sometimes bagged on the forest roads or too large and paths cannot pass • it is recommended to use smaller, manoeuvrable and terrain-like TLF (2000) on the roads, ideally with "Pump & Roll Function" • depending on the forest path infrastructure can also be used smaller vehicles (e.g. with less than 2000 litres of water) (preparations: smaller, more maneuverable, lower ground pressure) • Tank extinguishing vehicles with larger water tank can be used in the course of the fire-water supply or at water transfer points (e.g.g. g. g. g.

