# 8.5

- Situation reports/reports With regard to regional or supra-regional major damage events or the establishment of the disaster according to § 34 ThürBKG in the field of the fight against vegetation fire, concrete provisions are already in place to ensure uniform information and an effective reporting system – from the level of the counties and county-free cities via the Thuringian State Administration Office to the Thuringian Ministry of Home Affairs and Municipalities. A specified notification form is to be sent and reported by the lower civil protection authorities to the Thuringian State Administration Office (announcement with letter dated 08.01.2018): • at any time on request • on request • on situation-related at its own discretion • on entry and the end of a disaster according to § 34 ThürBKG • as soon as the coordination staff at the Thuringian State Administration Office was called upon to do so, in particular in the case of the following regional and supra-regional damage events/large damage events: a) events with a high public impact b) events in which a large number of people (>100) were affected c) operations with killed forces d) operations with at least.

- The lower civil protection authorities must send and report a specified notification form to the Thuringian State Administration Office (announcement by letter dated 08.01.2018): • at any time on request • at their own discretion according to the situation • the occurrence and the end of a disaster according to § 34 ThürBKG • as soon as the coordinating staff at the Thuringian State Administration Office was called up, in particular in the case of the following regional and supra-regional damage events/ major damage events: a) Events with a high visibility b) Events in which a large number of people (>100) are affected c) Operations with killed forces d) Operations with at least 100 forces and/or e) Operations with violent attacks on forces In the context of a vegetation fire, the use of special technology or at the authorities of which in conjunction with a large number of firefighters and technology may incur significant costs.

- 100 forces and/or e) Operations with violent attacks on forces In the context of a vegetation fire, due to the use of special technology or to their authorities in connection with a lot of firefighters and technology, sometimes considerable costs can arise. Corresponding regulations on costs, cost charges etc. can be found in the 6th edition of the German Federal Ministry of Defence.

- Corresponding regulations on costs, charges etc. can be found in the 6th section of the ThürBKG.

- Section of the ThürBKG. The chapter "Costs" contains information on the following topics:

