# 9.1

- Costs for local operations The municipalities fulfil their tasks in fire protection and general assistance as a compulsory task in their own sphere of action (§ 2 § 2 ThürBKG). This means that the municipalities themselves bear the costs of fire brigade operations for local operations in their own municipal area (§ 44 § 2 Nr. 1 ThürBKG), provided that no polluter can be identified and prosecuted for this purpose (see § 48 ThürBKG).

- This means that the municipalities themselves bear the costs of the fire brigade operation for local operations in their own municipality (§ 44 para. 2 no. 1 ThürBKG), provided that no polluter can be identified and prosecuted for this purpose (cf. § 48 ThürBKG). § 4 ThürBKG applies for operations in their own municipality, to which fire brigades of the neighbouring community are also used.

- § 4 ThürBKG applies for operations in its own community area, to which fire brigades of the neighbouring community are also used. The fire brigades provide each other with assistance on request of the commander of the operation, provided that their own tasks are not seriously endangered thereby.

- The fire brigades provide assistance to each other on request of the commander of the operation, provided that their own tasks are not seriously endangered by this. The aid provided is in principle free of charge!

- The assistance provided is in principle free of charge! On request, the municipality, which has been given assistance, has to bear the actual costs incurred by the fire brigades called to help.

