# 9.3

- Costs in the event of a disaster The costs of the measures in the course of a disaster event are borne by the district as the original responsibility of the civil protection. § 44 para. 2 sentence 2 ThürBKG (see No. 9.2) is also valid for this purpose.

- § 44 para. 2 sentence 2 ThürBKG (see No. 9.2). In the event of a disaster, a special civil protection fund was set up, through which the reimbursement of operational costs is carried out on request by the competent authority (§ 45 ThürBKG).

- In the event of a disaster, a civil protection fund has been set up specifically for the purpose of reimbursing operational costs at the request of the competent licensing authority (§ 45 ThürBKG).The use of the civil protection fund is governed by § 3 of the Thuringian Ordinance on the Civil Protection Fund (ThürKfVO) and the administrative regulation on the ThürKfVO.

- The use of the civil protection fund is governed by § 3 of the Thuringian Ordinance on the Civil Protection Fund (ThürKfVO) and the administrative regulation on the Thuringian Civil Protection Fund. This means that the institutions of the units first pay the resulting invoices, including the compensation for work, and then submit these expenses to the counties for reimbursement on the basis of their obligation to pay the costs.

- This means that the institutions of the units will first pay the invoices, including the reimbursement of wages, and will submit these expenses to the counties on the basis of their obligation to pay the reimbursement. The county will refund the expenses incurred to the municipalities and can then apply for the reimbursement from the Civil Protection Fund if the conditions are met.

- The district reimburses the expenses incurred to the municipalities and can then apply for reimbursement from the civil protection fund if the conditions are met. Of course, bilateral agreements between the municipalities and districts are possible, but these cannot be concluded at the expense of third parties, in particular employers.

