# 9.4

- Cost support from other authorities 64 Sources 65 Dear comrades, dear readers, I still remember the great forest fire at Plaue in April 2019, in which I was able to get an idea of the work of the fire brigades and relief organizations used as well as the police. It was impressive with which the mainly volunteer helpers fulfilled the hard work and before which tasks and efforts these were put on site.

- It was impressive to see how the mainly voluntary helpers performed the hard work and what tasks and efforts these were placed on the ground. However, it also showed me that our assistance system in fire protection, general assistance and civil protection is always facing great challenges.

- However, it also showed me that our assistance system in fire protection, general aid and civil protection is constantly facing major challenges. Current developments in the climate with ever higher temperatures, more and more warm days and less precipitation also affect the fire brigades and relief organisations.

- The current developments of the climate with ever higher temperatures, more and more warm days and less precipitation also affect the fire brigades and relief organisations. Not only more fires, but above all also the size or the special efforts that are necessary in the terrain or on steep slopes, they present mammoth tasks.

- Not only more fires, but above all also the size or the special efforts that are necessary in the terrain or on steep slopes, they present them with mammoth tasks. These tasks cannot be imposed by the municipalities and districts alone, here it is also necessary to provide further support from the country.

- These tasks cannot be carried out alone by the municipalities and counties, and further support from the country is also needed. This not only relates to the procurement of technology and equipment for the civil protection units, the promotion of vehicles in fire protection and general assistance, or the promotion of construction work in equipment houses – here, support is also needed in the form of targeted training courses, as in this case for the new challenges in the fight against vegetation fire.

- This applies not only to the procurement of technology and equipment for the civil protection units, the promotion of vehicles in fire protection and general assistance, or the promotion of construction work in equipment houses – here, support is also needed in the form of targeted training courses, as in this case for the new challenges in the fight against vegetation fire. In addition to the day seminars held in 2019 at short notice, e.g. in Ilmenau, there are also further courses at the Thuringian Landesfeuerwehr and Katastro-Phenschutzschule for the training of circuit instructors and circuit instructors for the troop training.

- In addition to the short-term daily seminars held in 2019, e.g. in Ilmenau, there are also further courses at the Thuringian Landesfeuerwehr and Katastro-Phenschutzschule for the further training of circuit instructors and circuit instructors for the training of troops. This manual is intended to support in the course of training and knowledge transfer and to summarize the most important facts and contents for all participants of the fire brigades, the municipalities or the districts involved in a vegetation fire.

- This manual is intended to support training and knowledge transfer and to summarise the most important facts and contents for all those involved in the fire brigades, the municipalities or the districts, and to help the authorities involved in a vegetation fire to cope with these major tasks. I would like to thank all those who are involved in the Free State of Thuringia mainly or voluntarily in meeting these challenges and wish you an informative review.

- I would like to thank all those who are active in the Free State of Thuringia either full-time or voluntary in order to meet these challenges and wish you an informative review. Return always healthy and safe from your missions!

- THR-Mehrzeuge-Mehrzeuge-Mehrzeuge-Mehrzeuge-Mehrzeuge-Mehrzeuge-Mehrzeuge-Mehrzeuge-Mehrzeuge-Mehrzeuge-Mehrzeuge-Mehrzeuge-Mehrzeuge-Mehrzeuge-Mehrzeuge-Mehrzeuge-Mehrzeuge-Mehrzeuge-Mehrzeuge-Mehrzeuge-Mehrzeuge-Mehrzeuge-Mehrzeuge-Mehrzeuge-Mehrzeuge-Mehrzeuge-Mehrzeuge-Mehrzeuge-Mehrzeuge-Mehrzeuge-Mehrzeuge-Mehrzeuge-Mehrzeuge-Mehrzeuge-Mehrzeuge-Mehrzeuge-Mehrzeuge-Mehrzeuge-Mehrzeuge-Mehrzeuge-Mehrzeuge-Mehrzeuge-Mehrzeuge-Mehrzeuge-Mehrzeuge-Mehrzeuge-Mehrzeuge-Mehrzeuge-Mehrzeuge-Mehrzeuge-Mehrzeuge-Mehrschutzung-Mehrung-Mehrzeuge-Mehrzeuge-Mehrung-Mehrung-Mehrzeuge-Mehrung-Mehrung-Mehr-Mehrung-Mehr-Mehr-Mehrung-Mehrungs-Mehrungs-Mehr-Mehr-Mehrung-Mehrung-Mehrungs-Mehr-Mehrungs-Mehrungs-Mehr-Mehr-Mehr-Mehr-Mehr-Mehr-Mehr-Mehr-Mehr-Mehr-Mehr-Mehr-Mehr-Mehr-Mehr-Mehr-Mehr-Mehr-Mehrungs-Mehr-Mehr-Mehr-Mehr-Mehr-Mehr-Mehr-Mehr-Mehr-Mehr-Mehr-Mehr-Mehr-Mehr-Mehr-Mehr-Mehr-Mehr-Mehr-Mehr-Mehr-Mehr-Mehr-Mehr-Mehr-Mehr-Mehr-Mehr-Mehr-Mehr-Mehr-Mehr-Mehr-Me VVThürKfVO Administrative regulation on the reimbursement of operational costs in accordance with the Thuringian regulation on the WBI Forest Fire Risk Index WT Water Squad WTF Water Squad WTM Water Squad 8 9 The state of Thuringia sees itself as the green heart of Germany, in which 330 million trees were counted after the recent federal forest inventory in 2011/2012.

- Your Georg Maier Thüringer Minister for Home Affairs and Municipalities Georg Maier, Thüringer Minister for Home Affairs and Municipalities 6 7 Abbreviation List of the German Federal Office for Civil Protection and Disaster Relief BOS Authorities and Organisations with Security Tasks BW Bundeswehr DGUV German Legal Accident Insurance DIN German Institute for Standardization DWD German Weather Service DXT Digital Exchange for Tetra (digital BOS Contact Point) EA Section of the EAL Division Head of the Group GLFI Grasland-Feuerindex GMLZ Common Registration and Location Centre of the Federal Government and Countries GW Equipment Cars GW-L2 Equipment Cars Logistic 2 HwD Radio Terminal (handiwork unit) Vegetation fire control VVThürKfVO Administrative regulation on the reimbursement of operational costs in accordance with the Thuringian regulation on the disaster protection fund WBI Forest fire risk index WT Water Troop WTF Water Troop Leader WTM Water Troop 8 9 The state of Thuringia sees itself as the green heart of Germany, in which 330 million trees were counted in the years 2011/2012 after the last federal forest inventory.

- On average, Thuringia has about 34 percent wooded land in seventh place in the federal states. In addition to the wooded land, large open plots for agriculture are also available in the middle and the north of the country.

- In addition to the wooded areas, there are also large open areas for agriculture in the middle and the north of the country. Despite the uncertainties about the regional effects, the climate change and the warming of the earth let scientists and researchers predict that the risk of bran-devents of vegetation increases in the medium and long term due to average temperature increases and drought also in Thuringia.

- Despite the uncertainties about the regional impact, scientists and researchers predict climate change and the warming of the Earth that the risk of growing bran-devents of vegetation due to average temperature increases and drought also increases in Thuringia in the medium and long term. The events that have already occurred in 2018 and 2019 have shown the possible effects.

- The events that have already occurred in 2018 and 2019 have demonstrated the possible effects. Thus, vegetation fires, which are difficult to fight due to the sometimes difficult topographical conditions and which have to be combated by special means, represent new challenges for local and inter-regional security as well as in particular civil protection.

- Thus, vegetation fires, which are difficult to combat due to the sometimes difficult topographical conditions and which have to be combated with special means, represent new challenges for local and supra-local security as well as in particular the civil protection. This manual for the fight against vegetation fires is therefore to form a basis for training and information for all Thuringian municipalities, districts and county-free cities as well as the fire brigades, according to § 9 Abs. 1 Thüringer fire and civil protection law (ThürBKG), for the fulfilment of the tasks in fire protection.

- This manual on the fight against vegetation fire is therefore intended to form a basis for training and information for all Thuringian municipalities, districts and cities free of district fire, as well as fire brigades used in the performance of fire protection tasks according to § 9 para. 1 Thüringer Brand- und Katastropheschutzgesetz (ThürBKG). Based on numerous elaborations and technical recommendations of many nationwide, the information and recommendations were summarized and prepared with the greatest care.

- On the basis of numerous elaborations as well as technical recommendations of many nationwide leading the organizations and specialists the information and recommendations were compiled with the greatest care. However, for the correctness, completeness as well as topicality of the contents can not be assumed.

- However, no guarantee can be given for the correctness, completeness and topicality of the contents. In the context of the development, it was important to provide accurate information and instructions for the involved fire brigades and/or authorities.

- In the context of the development, it was important to provide accurate information and instructions for the involved fire brigades and/or authorities. For example, for the personnel involved in physically strenuous work with jet pipe or hand tool in the forest, for the area of leadership and thus the decision on the tactical procedure at the deployment site or at the work at the district level.

- For example, for operational personnel in physically strenuous work with beam tube or hand tool in the forest, for the area of leadership and thus the decision on the tactical procedure at the deployment site or at the work at the district level. The following colour marking on the individual topics facilitates the search for corresponding content for the respective area of responsibility: Introduction § 9 ThürBKG In the chapter "General Information" information is included on the following topics:

