# 1.1

- Overview of Thuringia The state of Thuringia is characterised as a diverse federal state, whose landscape is very different in the individual regions.On the one hand there are the low mountains, e.g. the Thuringian Forest and the Harz, with its extensive forests and partly deep valleys/steep slopes or other hilly wooded areas, such as the Eichsfeld.

- On the one hand there are the low mountains, e.g. the Thuringian forest and the Harz, with its extensive forests and partly deep valleys/steep slopes or other hilly wooded areas, e.g. the Eichsfeld. Also extended, open corridors, which are characterized by meadows or agricultural use, can be found e.g. in the Thuringian basin.

- Also extended, open plots, which are characterized by meadows or agricultural use, can be found e.g. in the Thuringian basin. Due to the different landscapes there are different danger potentials for different types of vegetation fires.

- Due to the different landscapes there are different danger potentials for different types of vegetation fires. Especially in the open, agricultural areas (e.g. cereal fields) there is a risk of large, extensive and intensive corridor fires (area fires) in the summer months.

- Especially in the open, agricultural areas (e.g. cereal fields) there is a danger of large, extensive and intense area fires in the summer months. But also in the many forest areas of the country there is the danger of forest-fires.

- But also in the many forest areas of the country there is the danger of forest-fires. The Thuringian forests consist in a total of 56% of coniferous wood and 44% of hardwood.

- The Thuringian forests consist of 56% coniferous wood and 44% hardwood. About 28% of the forests are pure, of which 21% are coniferous wood and 7% are hardwood clean.

- About 28% of forests are pure, of which 21% are coniferous and 7% are hardwood. The existing mixed stocks usually have a higher proportion of coniferous than hardwood.

- The existing mixed stocks usually have a higher proportion of coniferous wood than hardwood. It remains to be noted that coniferous wood is much more susceptible to fire and is more likely to spread fire than deciduous forests.

- It should be noted that coniferous forests are much more susceptible to fire and are more likely to spread than deciduous forests. Due to the Thuringian Forest, corresponding forest fire risk is shared in the country according to the regional risk potential for forest fires.

