# 1.7

- Personal protective equipment Depending on the risk situation, the multi-layered protective device available in accordance with EN 469 performance level 2 in combination with air-independent breathing protection is often not or only partially suitable for the effective control of vegetation fires.The warm weather in conjunction with the high physical intensity of the forces is a great burden and effort of the forces used.

- The warm weather combined with the high physical intensity of the forces is a great burden and effort of the forces used. Furthermore, in the context of the vegetative fire control a completely different danger exists than in the classical fire control in the internal attack.

- In addition, there is a completely different risk situation in the context of vegetation fire control than in the case of classical fire control in the internal attack. In this respect, completely different requirements are placed on protective clothing in relation to the internal attack.

- In this respect, completely different requirements are placed on protective clothing in relation to the internal attack in the field of vegetation fire control.

- The vegetation fire fighting is an outdoor fire. Thus, the protective clothing must provide protection against flame contact or heat exposure and spark flight as well as a corresponding wearing comfort with a mechanical load capacity.

- On this basis, the following PPE is recommended for the control of vegetation: • single-layer fire jacket and trousers, e.g. according to DIN EN 469 performance level 1 • fire helmet with neck protection, as light as possible e.g. half-shell helmet • fire protection gloves • fire protection boots • a particulate filter disposable mask (according to EN 149, e.g. FFP2) can be used for lightly smoked bereie (no breathing protection and training is required here) • flame protection hood to protect open parts of the skin on the neck, neck and face; alternatively, a triangle cloth can be used • sealing, heat-resistant protective glasses • a breathing connection with filter (ideally A2B2E2K2-P3) as an escape device • a warning device (signal whistle) In addition, a long-sleeved and moisture-regulating underwear is recommended.

- On this basis, the following PPE is recommended for the control of vegetation fire: • single-layer fire jacket and trousers, e.g. according to DIN EN 469 performance level 1 • fire helmet with neck protection, as light as possible e.g. half-shell helmet • fire protection gloves • fire protection boots • a particle filter disposable mask (according to EN 149, e.g. FFP2) can be used for lightly smoked bereie che (no breathing protection and training is required for this purpose) • flame protection hood to protect open parts of the skin on the neck, neck and face; alternatively, a triangular cloth can be used • sealing, heat-resistant protective glasses • a breathing connection with filter (ideally A2B2E2K2-P3) as an escape device • a warning device (signal whistle) In addition, a long-sleeved and moisture-regulating undercloth is recommended.

- When using the above protective clothing, it is important to note that this must not be wetted due to possible scalding risk in the operation! The decision to deviate from the classic protective clothing according to EN 469 performance level 2 and air-independent breathing protection during the procedure is in principle only for the operator!

- The decision to deviate from the classic protective clothing according to EN 469 performance level 2 and air-independent breathing protection during the procedure is basically only the responsibility of the operator! A deviation is to be assessed depending on the respective risk situation!

- A deviation is to be assessed depending on the respective risk situation! In case of doubt use the above protective equipment and organize or ensure an early personnel exchange.

- In case of doubt, use the above protective equipment and organize or ensure an early exchange of personnel. The responsible manager orders the protective equipment to be used and supervises their use.

- The responsible manager orders the protective equipment to be used and supervises their use. A constant control and re-assessment of whether the protective equipment is still appropriate is indispensable from the operational manager (the respective manager).

- A constant check and re-assessment of whether the protective equipment is still appropriate is indispensable by the operational manager (the respective manager).

- Attention! Table of Contents

