# 4.

- to assist civil protection authorities in disaster preparedness.The units and bodies of the recognised private aid organisations of the issuing civil protection authority shall be responsible for the duration of organised civil protection exercises.

- For the duration of the civil protection exercises ordered, the units and facilities of the recognised private aid organisations shall be subject to the issuing civil protection authority. (2) In the context of the prevention of disasters and major damage situations, the recognised private aid organisations shall comply with the requirements of the Berlin fire brigade.

- (2) In the context of the prevention of disasters and major damage situations, the recognized private aid organisations have to comply with the requirements of the Berlin fire brigade. During the operations, they are under the responsibility of the Berlin fire brigade and act on its behalf.

- During the operations, they are under the responsibility of the Berlin fire brigade and act on its behalf. § 22 Legal status of volunteers in civil protection (1) Volunteers in civil protection are persons who have voluntarily committed themselves to the recognized private aid organizations in units and facilities of civil protection.

- § 22 Legal status of volunteers in civil protection (1) Volunteers in civil protection are persons who have voluntarily committed themselves to the recognized private aid organizations in units and facilities of civil protection. (2) The voluntary service in civil protection is governed by §§ 8, 9 paragraphs 1 and 3 and § 10 of the Fire Brigade Act of 23 September 2003 (GVBl.

- (2) For the voluntary service in civil protection, Sections 8, 9 paragraphs 1 and 3 and Section 10 of the Fire Brigade Act of 23 September 2003 (GVBl. p. 457) apply, which was last amended by Article 26 of the Law of 12 October 2020 (GVBl.

- 457), as last amended by Article 26 of the Law of 12 October 2020 (GVBl. p. 807), as amended.

- (3) The provisions of paragraph 2 shall apply only to persons who are in full-time employment in the Civil Protection Service, unless otherwise provided for in the employment relationship.

- (3) The provisions of paragraph 2 shall only apply to persons who are employed as a full-time civil protection service unless otherwise stated in the employment relationship. § 23 Participation of the other authorities of the State of Berlin, which are not already civil protection authorities (1) All authorities of the State of Berlin, which are not civil protection authorities within the meaning of this law, are obliged to support the civil protection authorities.

- § 23 Participation of the other authorities of the State of Berlin, which are not already civil protection authorities (1) All authorities of the State of Berlin, which are not civil protection authorities within the meaning of this law, are obliged to support the civil protection authorities. They also have to meet preparations for the maintenance of administrative and government functions in the event of a disaster.

- In addition, they must prepare for the maintenance of administrative and governmental functions in the event of a disaster. - Page 14 of 20. - (2) In order to fulfil their tasks under paragraph 1, the authorities may use their staff for disaster response measures.

- - page 14 of 20 - (2) In order to fulfil their duties under paragraph 1, the authorities may use their employees for measures to prevent disasters. § 24 Participation of legal persons under public law subject to the supervision of the State of Berlin The legal persons under public law subject to the supervision of the State of Berlin shall participate in civil protection, insofar as this is part of their tasks in individual cases.

- § 24 Participation of legal persons under public law subject to the supervision of the State of Berlin The legal persons under public law subject to the supervision of the State of Berlin shall participate in civil protection, insofar as this is part of their tasks in individual cases. § 25 Participation of the units and institutions of the Länder, the Federal Government and other states (1) Countries, the Federation and other states may participate in civil protection of the State of Berlin upon request.

- § 25 Participation of the units and institutions of the Länder, the Federal Government and other states (1) Countries, the Federal Government and other states may participate in the civil protection of the State of Berlin on request. Within the framework of their participation, in particular within the mandates given to them by civil protection authorities, the forces of the Länder, the Federal Government and other states have the same powers as the corresponding forces of the State of Berlin.

- Within the framework of their participation, in particular in the context of the contracts awarded to them by civil protection authorities, the forces of the Länder, the Federal Government and other states have the same powers as the corresponding forces of the Land of Berlin. They are under the direction of the authority from which they are deployed within the framework of their participation.

- (2) The Bundesanstalt Technisches Hilfswerk shall act in accordance with its assignment in accordance with the THW Act of 22 January 1990 (BGBl I, p.

- (2) The Bundesanstalt Technisches Hilfswerk shall act in accordance with its assignment of tasks under the THW Act of 22 January 1990 (BGBl I, p. 118), which was last amended by Article 2(8) of the Law of 22 January 1990 (BGBl I, p. 118).

