# 30. März 2021 (BGBl. I S. 402) geändert worden ist, in der jeweils geltenden Fassung im Katastro-

- § 26 Participation of hospitals Hospitals of the State of Berlin are obliged, within the framework of the participation in civil protection, to establish and continue operational plans for the relevant scenarios designated by the relevant civil protection authorities.

- § 26 Participation of hospitals Hospitals of the State of Berlin are obliged, within the framework of the participation in civil protection, to establish and continue operational plans for the relevant scenarios designated by the relevant civil protection authorities. They carry out civil protection exercises for the testing of operational plans as well as training and training events for the employees.

- They carry out civil protection exercises for the testing of operational plans and training and training courses for the employees. In the case of catastrophs or major damage situations, hospitals are obliged to take appropriate organisational and personal measures necessary to provide adequate care for a large number of injured, sick or affected people.

- In the case of catastrophic or major damage situations, hospitals are obliged to take appropriate organizational and personal measures necessary to provide adequate care for a large number of injured, sick or affected persons. § 27 Obligations of operators of facilities with special risk potential (1) The operators of facilities where the disturbance of the intended operation or the disturbance takes into account the domino effect in accordance with § 15 of the Accident Regulation may lead to a risk to the life or health of a large number of people, for whom the environment or other important legal goods may result, are obliged to assist the disaster protection authorities in disaster prevention.

- § 27 Obligations of operators of facilities with special risk potential (1) The operators of facilities in which the disturbance of the intended operation or the disturbance, taking into account the domino effect in accordance with § 15 of the Accident Regulation, may lead to a risk for the life or health of a large number of people, for the environment or for other important legal assets, are obliged to assist the civil protection authorities in disaster preparedness.

