# 2.

- 3. The measures taken pursuant to paragraph 2 shall be taken by the civil protection authorities responsible for the sector concerned when drawing up and updating their civil protection plans.

- 3. The measures taken pursuant to paragraph 2 shall be taken into account by the civil protection authorities responsible for the sector concerned in the preparation and updating of their civil protection plans. 4. The Senate Administration responsible for Home Affairs shall have a coordinating role which it shall perform through a Critical Infrastructure Coordination Unit.

- (4) The Senate Department responsible for Home Affairs has a coordinating role which it performs through a Critical Infrastructure Coordination Unit. The civil protection authorities responsible for the respective sector - page 16 of 20 - are obliged to cooperate with the Critical Infrastructure Coordination Unit.

- The civil protection authorities responsible for the respective sector - page 16 of 20 - are obliged to cooperate with the coordinating body Critical Infrastructures. Part 4 Costs, grants and data protection § 29 Costs (1) The recognised private aid organisations bear the costs incurred by them through their participation in the protection of the Katastro- phen, unless otherwise provided by this law.

- Part 4 Costs, grants and data protection § 29 Costs (1) The recognized private aid organizations bear the costs incurred by them as a result of their participation in the protection of the catastro- phen, unless otherwise specified by this law. (2) The costs of the measures to be taken pursuant to § 27 and § 28 shall be borne by the operators.

- (2) The costs of the measures to be taken in accordance with § 27 and § 28 shall be borne by the operators. § 30 Grants The Land of Berlin grants the recognized private aid organizations for their participation in the protection of the Katastrophe the expenses which arise, in particular, through disaster protection exercises, procurement and maintenance of additional equipment as well as the necessary training and further training of the volunteers.

- § 30 Grants The Land of Berlin grants the recognized private aid organizations for their participation in disaster protection grants to the expenses incurred by them, in particular by means of disaster protection exercises, procurement and maintenance of additional equipment as well as the necessary training and training of volunteers. § 31 Cost replacement (1) The civil protection authorities may require replacement of the costs incurred by them by measures of the defense against ca-strophies and major damage situations.

