# 5.

- 2. Civil protection officials may be required to be available for the actions referred to in paragraph 1, in particular to participate in civil protection exercises and training events.

- 2. Civil protection officials may be required to be available for action under paragraph 1, in particular to participate in civil protection exercises and training and training events. (3) The Senate Department responsible for Home Affairs shall be responsible for the overall coordination of disaster preparedness measures.

- (3) The Senate Administration responsible for Home Affairs is responsible for the overall coordination of disaster preparedness measures. To this end, the civil protection authorities of the Senate Administration responsible for Home Affairs must provide information on the implementation of the measures laid down in Sections 5 to 9 on request.

- To this end, the civil protection authorities of the Senate administration responsible for home affairs have to provide information on the implementation of the measures laid down in §§ 5 to 9. § 6 Civil protection plans (1) The civil protection authorities have to draw up and continue their own catastro- phene protection plan for disaster preparedness.

- § 6 Civil Protection Plans (1) The civil protection authorities have to draw up and continue their own catastro- phen protection plan for disaster preparedness. The basis of the civil protection plans is to be a specific risk assessment.

- The basis of the civil protection plans is to be a specific department-related hazard assessment. - Page 5 of 20 - (2) The Senate Administration responsible for Home Affairs, with the help of the civil protection authority, is to prepare and continue a cross-resort risk assessment.

- - page 5 of 20 - (2) The Senate Department responsible for Home Affairs, with the assistance of the Civil Protection Authority, should prepare and continue a cross-departmental risk assessment. (3) The civil protection plans shall provide at least:

