# 4.

- Measures to maintain administrative and governmental functions. (4) Special event-related plans shall be drawn up and continued as part of the civil protection plans where necessary.

- (4) As part of the civil protection plans, special event-related plans must be drawn up and updated if necessary. § 7 External emergency plans; Regulation authorization (1) For the implementation of the incident regulation (12.

- § 7 External Emergency Plans; Authorization of Regulations (1) The regulation for the implementation of the incident regulation (12. BImSchV) as amended by the notice dated 15 March 2017 (BGBl.

- BImSchV), as amended by the notice dated 15 March 2017 (BGBl. I p. 483, 3527), as last amended by Article 107 of the Regulation of 19 June 2020 (BGBl.

- 483, 3527), as last amended by Article 107 of the Regulation of 19 June 2020 (BGBl I, p. 1328), as amended, competent authorities shall draw up external contingency plans for actions outside such establishments for which the operator or the operator, in accordance with Section 9(1) in conjunction with Section 2, point 2, 12.

- 1328), as amended, the competent authorities must draw up external contingency plans for measures outside such establishments for which the operator or the operator is required to draw up a safety report in accordance with § 9 (1) in conjunction with § 2 (2) 12.

- BImSchV must draw up a safety report. They must be coordinated with the internal alarm and security plans of the operators.

- They must be coordinated with the internal alarm and security plans of the operators.

- The authorities responsible for the implementation of the 12th BImSchV may decide, on the basis of the safety reports, that an external emergency plan is not necessary and that the decision shall be justified.

- The competent authorities may decide, on the basis of the safety reports, that an external emergency plan is not necessary and that the decision shall be justified. (2) External emergency plans shall be drawn up in order to:

