# 2.

- Under the conditions of § 17 natural persons and legal persons as well as associations of persons to participate in the disaster response. Decisions taken in accordance with the second and third sentences must be time-limited.

- Decisions taken in accordance with sentences 2 and 3 shall be subject to a time limit. Decisions shall be notified immediately to the relevant members of the Senate and may be revoked or amended at any time by the Senate.

- The decisions shall be notified immediately to the relevant Senate members and may be revoked or amended at any time by the Senate. (4) In cases of major damage, the relevant technically responsible Senate members or a member of the respective House Management may convene the decision-making body in consultation with the Senate Administration responsible for Home Affairs, page 9 of 20, if there is a need for cross-resort coordination.

- (4) In the event of major damage, the competent senate members or a member of the management responsible for home affairs designated by them may, in consultation with the administration responsible for home affairs - page 9 of 20 - convene the interdepartmental decision-making body if there is a need for interdepartmental coordination. The convening member of the senate or a member of the management responsible for home affairs shall lead the meetings of the executive committee and shall act on an immediate decision.

- The convening member of the Senate or a member of the management of the house shall lead the meetings of the departmental decision-making body and shall act on an immediate decision. § 15 Press and Public Relations Press and public relations shall be coordinated with the crisis unit in the event of a disaster.

- § 15 Press and Public Relations In the event of a disaster, the press and public relations work must be coordinated with the crisis unit. § 10 Paragraph 3 remains unaffected.

- § 10 Paragraph 3 remains unaffected. § 16 Definition of restricted areas (1) Insofar as this is necessary for the prevention of a catastrophe or major damage situation, the ca-strophic protection authorities may temporarily declare the affected or threatened areas and their access and access routes to restricted areas.

- § 16 Establishment of restricted areas (1) Insofar as this is necessary for the prevention of a disaster or major damage situation, the ca-strophic protection authorities may temporarily declare the affected or threatened areas and their access and access routes to restricted areas. The declaration shall be made available to the public immediately in an appropriate manner.

- The declaration shall be made available to the public immediately in an appropriate manner. Powers to establish restricted areas under other legislation shall remain unaffected.

- Powers to establish restricted areas under other legislation shall remain unaffected. (2) In relation to persons present in the restricted area, arrangements may be made for clearing and sequestration, in particular the place of operation.

- (2) Orders may be made against persons present in the restricted area to be evacuated and taken away, in particular the place of operation. Persons may be obliged to remove the goods they carry from the restricted area.

- Persons may be obliged to remove the items they carry from the restricted area. In individual cases, persons may enter the restricted area with the consent of the Civil Protection Authority.

- In individual cases, persons may enter the restricted area with the consent of the Civil Protection Authority. (3) Opposition and appeal against the orders issued pursuant to paragraph 2 have no suspensory effect.

- (3) Opposition and appeal against the orders issued pursuant to paragraph 2 shall have no suspensive effect. (4) Any damage suffered by a person by an order pursuant to paragraph 2 shall be subject to the provisions of Sections 59 to 65 of the General Law on Security and Orders, as amended by the notice dated 11 October 2006 (GVBl.

- (4) Any damage suffered by a person by an order pursuant to paragraph 2 shall be subject to the provisions of Sections 59 to 65 of the General Security and Ordinance Act, as amended by the notice dated 11 October 2006 (GVBl. p. 930), most recently by Articles 1 and 5 of the Law of 22 March 2021 (GVBl.

- 930), as last amended by Articles 1 and 5 of the Law of 22 March 2021 (GVBl. p. 318), as amended.

- § 17 Use of persons and property (1) The civil protection authorities and the persons acting on their behalf may, under the conditions laid down in Section 16 (1) and (2) of the General Security and Ordinance Act, natural persons with the completion of the 18th century.

- § 17 Use of persons and property (1) The civil protection authorities and the persons acting on their behalf may, under the conditions of § 16 (1) and (2) of the General Security and Ordinance Act, make use of natural persons at the age of 18 and legal persons as well as associations of persons to assist in the prevention of disasters or major damage.

- For the duration of the use of natural persons, § 22 (2) and (3) shall apply mutatis mutandis.

- Paragraph 22(2) and (3) shall apply mutatis mutandis for the duration of the use of natural persons. (2) Insofar as it is necessary to prevent a disaster or major damage, persons shall tolerate the use, in particular the use and consumption of their property and possessions, by the civil protection authorities or the persons acting on their behalf.

- (2) Insofar as it is necessary for the prevention of a catastrophe or major damage situation, persons shall tolerate the use, in particular the use and consumption of their property and possessions, by the civil protection authorities or the persons acting on their behalf. (3) A damage suffered by someone by the use in accordance with paragraphs 1 and 2 or by voluntary assistance as an unbound helper or unbound helper with the consent of a Katastrophenschutzbehörde in the defense measure shall be replaced in accordance with §§ 59 to 65 of the General Security and Order Act.

- (3) Any damage suffered by a person by recourse to paragraphs 1 and 2 or by voluntary assistance as an unbound helper or unbound helper with the consent of a Katastrophenschutzbehörde in the defence measure shall be replaced in accordance with §§ 59 to 65 of the General Security and Order Law. - Page 10 of 20 - (4) Objection and appeal against the orders issued on the basis of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall have no suspensive effect.

- - Page 10 of 20 - (4) Objection and appeal against the orders issued pursuant to paragraphs 1 and 2 have no suspensive effect. § 18 Personal information office and its processing of personal data (1) In the event of a disaster, the Berlin Police Office shall establish a personal information office which shall provide personal data from the data subject for the purpose of seeking and identifying missing persons.

- § 18 Personal information office and its processing of personal data (1) In the event of a disaster, the police in Berlin shall set up a personal information office which shall process personal data from the data subject for the purpose of searching for missing persons and identifying them. (2) A personal information office may already be established in the event of major damage.

- (2) A personal information body may be established in the event of major damage. (3) Civil protection authorities and civil protection personnel shall be responsible for:

