# 8. die zum Schutz kritischer Infrastruktur erforderlichen Maßnahmen.

- (3) The member of the state government responsible for home affairs is authorized by law to regulate the body of the country which is responsible for the operation of the digital radio BOS within the meaning of § 5 point 3. § 50 Occupational and functional designations Women and men carry out the professional and functional designations applicable under this law in a gender-specific form.

- § 50 Occupational and functional designations Women and men carry the occupational and functional designations applicable under this law in a gender-specific form. § 51 Transitional Regulation (1) The legal regulations issued on the basis of the Fire Protection Act and the Brandenburg Civil Protection Act remain in force until the adoption of new regulations, unless they conflict with the provisions of this law.

- § 51 Transitional Regulation (1) The legal regulations issued on the basis of the Fire Protection Act and the Brandenburg Civil Protection Act remain in force until the adoption of new regulations until such time as they do not conflict with the provisions of this Act. To the extent that these regulations refer to provisions that have expired, the corresponding provisions of this Act apply.

- The corresponding provisions of this Act shall apply insofar as reference is made to provisions which have lapsed in these legal regulations. (2) Before entering into force of this Act, local military leaders, military leaders, district fire masters and their alternates, appointed and honorary or temporary honorary officers, shall continue to perform their functions until the appointment of a local military leader or deputy in accordance with § 28 para. 2, a military leader or deputy in accordance with § 28 para. 1 No. 2 and a district fire master or deputy in accordance with § 29 para. 1.

- (2) Prior to the entry into force of this law, local military leaders, military leaders, district firemasters and their alternates, who are either honorary or temporary officers, shall continue to perform their functions until the appointment of a local military leader or deputy in accordance with § 28 para. 2, a military leader or deputy in accordance with § 28 para. 1 no. 2 and a district firemaster or deputy in accordance with § 29 para. 1. (3) By way of derogation from § 14 para. 1 sentence 3 point 1, existing object radio equipment shall not be subject to a transitional period of one year after the entry into force of the Act amending the Brandenburg Fire and Civil Protection Act and other provisions of the German Civil Protection Act.

