# 65. Lebensjahres Absatz 1 entsprechend.

- (3) The emergency physician according to § 7 para. 5 sentence 1 of the Rescue Service Act of 29 November 1991 (GVOBI.

- November 1991 (GVOBI. Schl.-H. p.579, ber.

- 691, 1992 p.32), as amended by Regulation of 16 June 1998 (GVOBl.

- 691, 1992 p.32), Responsibilities adapted by Regulation of 16 June 1998 (GVOBl. Schl.-H. p. 210), has the medical management at the place of damage at the first medical care and is in charge of instruction in relation to the assistant staff involved in the operation in medical and doctors in medical-organizational questions.

- Section VI Obligations to provide assistance and services § 24 Obligations of the population (1) Every person aged at least 16 years is obliged to provide assistance in the fight against disasters and the immediate subsequent temporary repair of damage according to their abilities and knowledge, if requested by the Civil Protection Authority or the Head or the Head of a subordinate management level.

- Section VI Obligations to provide assistance and services § 24 Obligations to provide assistance to the population (1) Every person aged 16 years or older is obliged to provide assistance in the fight against disasters and the immediate subsequent temporary repair of damage according to their abilities and knowledge if requested to do so by the Civil Protection Authority or the Head or the Head of a subordinate management level. (2) The assistance can only refuse to provide assistance if he or she is afraid of undue health damage or if he or she is in breach of higher-quality obligations.

- (2) The assistance can only be refused by those who are afraid of undue damage to health or who are infringing higher-quality obligations. § 25 Use of vehicles and equipment; Repairs - page 16 of 26 - (1) The owner, owner, owner and keeper of vehicles of all kinds, machinery, towing animals, tools, installations, equipment, equipment and other suitable aids must be permitted to use these and their accessories at the order of the Civil Protection Authority or the head or head of a subordinate management level for the prevention of disasters and for the immediate subsequent provisional prevention of damage.

- § 25 Use of vehicles and equipment; repairs - page 16 of 26 - (1) The owner, owner, owner and keeper of vehicles of all kinds, machinery, towing animals, tools, installations, equipment, equipment and other suitable aids must tolerate the use of these and their accessories on the orders of the Civil Protection Authority or the head or head of a subordinate management level for the prevention of disasters and for the immediate subsequent provisional confirmation of damage. (2) Those who normally carry out repairs in their business may be used during a disaster operation in particular for the immediate repair of vehicles, machinery or equipment.

- (2) Those who normally carry out repairs in their business can be used during a disaster operation in particular for the immediate repair of vehicles, machines or equipment. They or they must also provide necessary spare parts and accessories as well as equipment as part of the business operation.

- § 26 Use of land, works or ships (1) The owner or the owner or the owner of a land, building or ship shall be required to tolerate the entry and use of the land, building or ship by forces and other persons present in the service to the extent necessary to combat the disaster or for the immediate temporary removal of damage.

- § 26 Use of land, works or ships (1) The owner or the owner or the owner or the owner of a land, building or ship shall tolerate the entry and use of the land, building or ship by forces and other persons present in the service to the extent necessary to combat the disaster or for the immediate subsequent temporary removal of damage. They shall also have the temporary or permanent installation and operation of facilities to warn and inform the population in accordance with § 6 para. 3 no. 7 to do so.

- They also have the temporary or permanent installation and operation of facilities to warn and inform the population according to § 6 para. 3 no. 7 to do so. Public buildings are to be used primarily.

- (2) The owner or the owner or owner of the land, building or ship affected by a catastrophe or by the adjacent land, building or ship shall not tolerate any further measures which are ordered by the Civil Protection Authority or the Head or the Head of a subordinate management level for the purpose of combating disasters or for the immediate subsequent temporary repair of damage and which interfere with the existing or previous use of the land, building or ship.

- 2. The owner or owner or owner of the land, structure or ship affected by a catastro- phe or adjacent to that land, structure or ship shall not tolerate any further measures ordered by the Civil Protection Authority or the Head or Head of a subordinate management level for the purpose of disaster control or the immediate subsequent temporary repair of damage and shall intervene in the inventory or use of the land, structure or ship. § 27 Obligations of the persons present in the disaster area or at the site of operation Each person present in the disaster area or at a site of operation shall comply with orders of the Civil Protection Authority or the Head or Head of a subordinate management level concerning the evacuation, closure or security of the disaster area or site of operation.

- § 27 Obligations of the persons present in the disaster area or at the site of operation Each person present in the disaster area or at a site of operation must comply with orders of the disaster protection authority or the head of a subordinate management level regarding the evacuation, closure or security of the disaster area or site of operation. § 28 Obligations of an installation or an operating area with special risk potential (1) The operator of an installation, which falls under § 7 (1) of the Atomic Law, or another installation, where it cannot be ruled out that the traffic potential released from the installation can cause a disaster (plant with special risk potential), is obliged to support the disaster protection authority in the preparatory catastro- phen protection, in the disaster response and in the immediate subsequent temporary elimination of damage at its expense.

- § 28 Obligations in the case of an installation or an operating area with special risk potential (1) The operator of an installation, which falls under § 7 (1) of the Atomic Energy Act, or another installation, where it cannot be ruled out that the mobile potential released from the installation can cause a disaster (installation with special risk potential), is obliged to support at its own expense the civil protection authority in the preparatory disaster protection, in the disaster response and in the immediate subsequent temporary elimination of damage. It or it has in particular - page 17 of 26 -

