# 2.

- the carrying out of exercises in areas of operation with special risk potential the necessary costs, unless at the same time they are plants with special risk potential. The costs can be lumped down according to the average required effort.

- (3) The country shall reimburse the civil protection institutions and the civil protection service institutions for the costs incurred by a disaster operation outside the country's borders ordered pursuant to Section 19(2) and which shall not be borne by any other party.

- (3) The country shall reimburse the civil protection institutions and the civil protection service institutions for the costs incurred by a disaster operation outside the country's borders ordered pursuant to Section 19(2) and which shall not be borne by any other party. Administrative costs shall not be reimbursed.

- 4. Procurement from national funds shall be carried out centrally by the Ministry of the Interior within the framework of approved grants.

- (4) Procurement from national funds should be carried out centrally by the Ministry of the Interior within the framework of grants granted. (5) The municipalities and non-circular cities shall assist the private civil protection service institutions in the expenditure incurred by their units and institutions in the field of civil protection by means of grants in the framework of available budgetary resources.

- 5. The municipalities and non-circular cities shall assist the private civil protection service providers in the expenditure incurred by their units and institutions in civil protection by means of grants under available budgetary resources. The grants shall cover in particular the costs of equipping, training and maintaining the units and facilities of the civil protection service and the administrative costs of their operators at the district level.

- The grants cover, in particular, the costs of equipping, training and maintaining the units and facilities of the civil protection service and the administrative costs of their operators at county level. § 35 Non-purpose use Use private civil protection service providers to equip the civil protection institutions outside the purposes of this law, they may be used to compensate for the resulting costs.

- § 35 Non-purpose use Use private institutions of the Civil Protection Service to equip the institutions of civil protection outside the purposes of this law, they can be used to replace the resulting costs. Section VIII Information provisions § 36 Processing of personal data (1) The Civil Protection Authority may, for the preparation and implementation of civil protection measures as well as for the collection and satisfaction of claims, the personal data necessary for the fulfilment of its tasks.

