# 16.

- (3) The Civil Protection Authority may, for the purposes referred to in the first sentence of paragraph 1, apply the provisions of Section 37 (1) and (2) of the Fire Protection Act of 10 February 1996 (GVOBl.

- (3) The Civil Protection Authority may, for the purposes referred to in the first sentence of paragraph 1, amend the provisions of Section 37 (1) and (2) of the Fire Protection Act of 10 February 1996 (GVOBl. Schl.-H. p. 200), as last amended by the Act of 7 November 2000 (GVOBl.

- 200), last amended by law of 7 November 2000 (GVOBl. Schl.-H. S. 582, 587), to process stored data to the extent necessary.

- For the processing of personal data in the documentation of in-depth reports on damage events as well as in the management of the disaster response and the use, § 37 (3) of the Fire Protection Act shall apply accordingly.

- (4) For the processing of personal data in the documentation of in-depth reports on damage events as well as in the management of the disaster response and the use, Section 37(3) of the Fire Protection Act shall apply accordingly. (5) For the purpose of civil protection, the Civil Protection Authority may also process data within the meaning of Article 9(1) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 1, insofar as this is necessary in individual cases to carry out tasks under this Act.

- (5) For the purpose of civil protection, the Civil Protection Authority may also process data within the meaning of Article 9(1) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 1, insofar as this is necessary in individual cases to carry out tasks under this Act. § 12 of the Landesdatenschutzgesetz applies mutatis mutandis.

- Paragraph 12 of the National Data Protection Act applies mutatis mutandis. Footnotes 1) Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data, on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation) (OJ L 347, 20.12.2016, p.

- Footnotes 1) Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data, on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation) (OJ L 119, 1.

- OJ L 119, 11.3.2016, p.

- 2016 OJ L 314 p. 72) § 37 Data processing in the health sector § 36 applies mutatis mutandis to the collection and processing of personal data in the health sector in the performance of tasks pursuant to §§ 22 and 23 (1) and (2).

- 72) § 37 Data processing in the health sector § 36 applies mutatis mutandis to the collection and processing of personal data in the health sector in the performance of tasks pursuant to §§ 22 and 23 para. 1 and Section IX Other provisions § 38 Illegalities (1) Non-compliance, who acts intentionally or negligently

