# 5.

- as operator of an installation or an operating area pursuant to § 28 the obligation to provide information for the preparation of the external emergency plan pursuant to § 28 para. 1 sentence 2 no. 2 or para. 2, the obligation to cancel early warnings and reports on imminent or occurrence of damage events pursuant to § 28 para. 1 sentence 2 no. 3 or para. 2 or the obligation to participate in an exercise pursuant to § 28 para. 1 sentence 2 no. 4 or para. 2 does not, in full or in due time. (2) In the cases referred to in paragraph 1 point 1 to 3 the irregularity may be fined up to 5,000 euros, in the cases referred to in paragraph 1 point 4 with a fine of up to 1,500 euros and in the cases referred to in paragraph 1 point 5 with a fine of up to 50,000 euros.

- (2) In the cases referred to in paragraph 1, points 1 to 3, irregularity may be punishable by a fine of up to EUR 5,000, in the cases referred to in paragraph 1, point 4, by a fine of up to EUR 1,500 and in the cases referred to in paragraph 1, point 5, by a fine of up to EUR 50,000.

- (3) The Disaster Protection Authority is responsible for the prosecution and prosecution of the irregularity. § 39 Preventing serious hazards below the disaster threshold (1) The local regulatory authorities and for the cases of § 167 of the State Administration Act the lower specialised supervisory authorities must prepare for the prevention of serious risks below the disaster threshold.

- § 39 Responding to severe hazards below the disaster threshold (1) The local regulatory authorities and, in the case of § 167 of the Landesverwaltungsgesetz (Landverwaltungsgesetz), the lower supervisory authorities must prepare for the prevention of serious risks below the disaster threshold. These are threats to public safety, in particular by the release of harmful substances, radiation or organisms, to which the use of individual units and facilities of the civil protection service is required.

- These are risks to public safety, in particular through the release of harmful substances, radiation or organisms, to which the use of individual units and facilities of the Civil Protection Service is necessary to prevent them. (2) In order to prepare for the prevention of the risks referred to in paragraph 1, the local regulatory authorities may conclude agreements with the civil protection service's institutions in the district of the lower civil protection authority in order to use the defence potential there.

- 2. For the purpose of preparing for the prevention of the risks referred to in paragraph 1, the local regulatory authorities may conclude agreements with the civil protection service's institutions in the district of the lower civil protection authority in order to use the existing defence potential. (3) If the serious risk below the disaster threshold is assumed by an installation or an operating area in accordance with § 28, the district regulatory authority shall avert this risk by applying the external emergency plan accordingly.

- (3) If the serious danger below the disaster threshold arises from an installation or operating area in accordance with § 28, the district regulatory authority shall avert this danger by applying the external emergency plan accordingly. This also applies if an uncontrolled event occurs, in which the occurrence of a serious danger is to be expected.

- This also applies if there is an uncontrolled event in which the occurrence of a serious danger is to be expected. (4) In the case of the prevention of hazards according to paragraphs 1 and 3, the district regulatory authority and in the cases of § 167 of the Land Administration Act may use the lower specialized supervisory authority units and facilities of the civil protection service.

- (4) The district regulatory authority and in the cases of § 167 of the Landesverwaltungsgesetz may use the lower specialized supervisory authority units and facilities of the civil protection service. § 1 para. 2, § 4 para. 2 sentence 2, § 6 para. 2 nos. 1 to 4 and 8, §§ 7, 12 to 15, 17 to 19, 24 to 27, 30, 31 para. 1 sentence 1 and para. 3, §§ 33, 34 para. 3, §§ 36 and 38 apply accordingly.

- § 1 para. 2, § 4 para. 2 sentence 2, § 6 para. 2 nos. 1 to 4 and 8, §§ 7, 12 to 15, 17 to 19, 24 to 27, 30, 31 para. 1 sentence 1 and para. 3, §§ 33, 34 para. 3, §§ 36 and 38 apply accordingly. - Page 25 of 26 - (5) In the territory of the municipality of Helgoland, the tasks of defence against serious hazards below the disaster threshold are performed by the civil protection authority according to § 3 para. 3.

- - Page 25 of 26 - (5) In the territory of the municipality of Helgoland, the tasks of preventing serious hazards below the disaster threshold are performed by the civil protection authority in accordance with § 3 para. 3.

