# 3.

- (3) The Federation shall act with the Federal Institute for Technical Assistance in accordance with the provisions of the THW-Helferrechtsgesetz of 22 January 1990 (BGBl.

- (3) The Federal Government shall act with the Federal Institute for Technical Relief in accordance with the provisions of the THW-Helferrechtsgesetz of 22 January 1990 (BGBl I, p. 118), as last amended by Law of 17 January 1990 (BGBl I, p.

- 118), as last amended by Law of 17 December 1997 (BGBl I, p.

- December 1997 (BGBl. I p. 3108), in civil protection.

- 3108), in the field of civil protection. The provisions for the institutions of the Civil Protection Service shall apply mutatis mutandis to the Technical Assistance Agency, insofar as its head office as a federal institution or regulations of the Federal Republic do not conflict.

- The provisions for the institutions of the Katastrophenschutzdienst shall apply mutatis mutandis to the Technische Hilfswerk, insofar as its head office as a federal institution or regulations of the federal government do not conflict. § 11 Civil Protection Service; Rights and obligations of the institutions (1) In order to ensure participation according to § 10 (1), units and facilities classified according to specialized services are formed (catastrophenschutzdienst).

- § 11 Civil Protection Service; Rights and obligations of the institutions (1) In order to ensure participation according to § 10 (1), units and facilities are formed according to specialized services (catastrophe protection service). - Page 10 of 26 - (2) The Ministry of the Interior determines after consultation according to § 9 (1) sentence 3 the strength, the link and the minimum equipment of the civil protection service and, if necessary, further details and regulates the training of the forces.

- - page 10 of 26 - (2) The Ministry of the Interior, after consultation with the Section 9 (1) sentence 3, determines the strength, the link and the minimum equipment of the Civil Protection Service and, where appropriate, other details and regulates the training of the forces. (3) Insofar as the required strength is not achieved by units and facilities of public or private institutions of the Civil Protection Service, the districts and non-circular cities and the municipality of Helgoland shall establish their own units and facilities of the Civil Protection Service (control units and facilities).

- (3) Insofar as the required strength is not achieved by units and institutions of public or private institutions of the Civil Protection Service, the districts and non-circular cities and the municipality of Helgoland shall establish their own units and facilities of the Civil Protection Service (directories and institutions). (4) Unless specifically regulated by law, the civil protection service bodies shall inform the Civil Protection Authority of all essential facts of the Civil Protection Service, in particular the personnel strength, the structure, the training and the equipment, and, upon request, the personal data referred to in Section 36(2) of their available forces within the meaning of paragraph 1, and shall immediately communicate any material changes.

- (4) Unless specifically regulated by law, the Civil Protection Service providers must inform the Civil Protection Authority of all the essential facts of the Civil Protection Service, in particular of the personnel strength, the structure, the training and the equipment, as well as of the personal data referred to in § 36(2) of their available forces within the meaning of paragraph 1, and of significant changes without delay. (5) The Civil Protection Service providers must ensure the operational capacity of their forces within the meaning of § 10(1) also with a view to coordinated cooperation with other specialised services in cross-sectoral operations and, on request with available forces, participate in exercises under the uniform management of the Civil Protection Authority.

- (5) The Civil Protection Service providers shall also ensure the operational capacity of their forces within the meaning of § 10 (1) with a view to co-ordinated cooperation with other specialised services in cross-disciplinary operations and, on request, to participate in exercises under the uniform management of the Civil Protection Authority with the help of available forces. (6) The Civil Protection Service providers may use the equipment provided for civil protection with the consent of the Civil Protection Authority outside the civil protection department, provided that this does not adversely affect the preparedness of the Civil Protection Service.

- 6. Civil protection service providers may use the equipment provided for them for civil protection with the consent of the civil protection authority outside the civil protection service, provided that this does not adversely affect the readiness of the civil protection service. Section III Civil protection service personnel § 12 Civil protection service (1) The provisions of this section apply to the forces of the private bodies of the civil protection service and the forces of government units and agencies.

- Section III Civil Protection Service Force § 12 Civil Protection Service (1) The provisions of this section apply to the forces of the private institutions of the Katastrophenschutzdienst and the forces of government units and agencies. They apply accordingly to persons who participate in operations or exercises in accordance with § 24 (1) or voluntarily with the consent of the Civil Protection Authority or the Head or the Head of a subordinate management level.

- They apply mutatis mutandis to persons who participate in operations or exercises in accordance with § 24 para. 1 or voluntarily with the consent of the Civil Protection Authority or the Head or the Head of a subordinate management level. (2) The Civil Protection Service's operational force is a helper who is voluntary and voluntary in a unit or institution of the Civil Protection Service.

- 2. The Civil Protection Service shall be engaged in a voluntary and voluntary activity in a unit or body of the Civil Protection Service. The agency shall undertake to assist the entity or body in the protection of the civil protection, provided that its duty of participation does not already exist on the basis of membership of the institution.

- The institution undertakes to cooperate with the institution of the unit or institution in the protection of the cascade, provided that its obligation to cooperate does not already exist on the basis of its membership of the institution. The institution of the unit or institution must inform the employer or the employer or the servant thereof.

- The institution of the unit or institution shall inform the employer or the employer or the service provider thereof; the operator shall not belong to more than one unit or institution of the civil protection service.

- The operator shall not be a member of more than one unit or body of the Civil Protection Service.

