# 2.

- (4) In view of the existing employment and service relationships of the helpers, exercises and training sessions shall be placed as far as possible in the work-free period.

- (4) In view of the existing employment and service relationships of the helpers, exercises and training events must be placed as far as possible in the free time. (5) The claims are with respect to the Civil Protection Authority, which has granted special recognition to the individual unit or body in which the helper is active.

- 5. The claims shall be with respect to the Civil Protection Authority, which has granted special recognition to the individual unit or body in which the helper operates; the Ministry of Home Affairs and Europe shall regulate the reimbursement procedure, including the institutions of the Civil Protection Units and bodies; it may adopt guidelines for a lump-sum assessment of paragraph 1 (1).

- The Ministry of Home Affairs and Europe regulates the reimbursement procedure involving the institutions of the units and bodies of civil protection; it may adopt guidelines for a lump-sum assessment of paragraph 1 (1). § 26 Accident insurance In the event of damage to health, compensation shall be granted in accordance with the provisions on accident insurance laid down in the Seventh Book of the Social Code.

- § 26 Accident insurance In the event of damage to health, compensation shall be granted in accordance with the provisions on accident insurance in accordance with the Seventh Book of the Social Code. § 27 - Page 17 of 23 - Liability for damage (1) The liability of the helper for damage caused by the performance of his service in civil protection to property owned by public authorities is limited to intent and gross negligence.

- § 27 - Page 17 of 23 - Liability for damages (1) The liability of the helper for damages caused in the performance of his service in civil protection to goods owned by public authorities is limited to intent and gross negligence. (2) Liability for damages incurred by the helper in the performance of his service in civil protection shall be determined in accordance with Article 34 of the Basic Law in conjunction with § 839 of the Civil Code.

- (2) Liability for damages incurred by the helper in the performance of his civil protection duties shall be determined in accordance with Article 34 of the Basic Law in conjunction with Article 839 of the Civil Code.

