# 2.

- the responsible persons according to § 2 with helpers, who are active in private and by them particularly recognized units and facilities of the civil protection. The recourse against the helper is limited to intent and gross negligence.

- The recourse to the helper is limited to intent and gross negligence. In the case of body damage caused by one helper to another, § 106 (3) of the Seventh Book of the Social Code - Statutory Accident Insurance applies.

- Section 4 Costs § 28 Principle (1) The organisations involved in civil protection, as well as the counties and non-circular cities, bear the costs incurred by them as a result of their expenditure on civil protection.

- Section 4 Costs § 28 Principle (1) The organisations involved in civil protection, as well as the counties and non-circular cities, bear the costs incurred by them as a result of their expenditure on civil protection. (2) The responsi- bility bodies pursuant to § 2 support the private organizations in the costs incurred by their units and institutions in civil protection through the granting of grants.

- (2) The responsible bodies referred to in § 2 shall assist the private organizations in the expenditure incurred by their units and institutions in civil protection through the granting of grants. The amount shall be based on the available budgetary resources.

- The amount depends on the available budgetary resources. The grants cover in particular the costs of the equipment, training and maintenance of the units and facilities of civil protection and the administrative costs of their institutions at the level of the counties and non-circular cities.

- The grants cover in particular the costs of equipment, training and maintenance of the units and facilities of civil protection as well as administrative costs of their institutions at the level of the counties and county-free cities.

