# 7.

- Arrangements for informing the forces of neighbouring Länder and the Republic of Poland in the event of a serious accident with possible cross-border consequences. (5) The draft or substantial changes to the external contingency plans shall be interpreted publicly for the purpose of consulting the public for a period of one month.

- (5) The draft or substantial changes to the external contingency plans shall be publicly construed for consultation with the public for a period of one month.

- For areas with potentially cross-border effects, the involvement of the neighbouring country shall be ensured. - page 10 of 23 - parts of the external contingency plans, including the particulars referred to in point 1 of paragraph 4 shall be excluded.

- The parts of the external contingency plans, including the particulars referred to in paragraph 4, point 1, which are in need of secrecy on page 10 of 23, shall be excluded. The place and duration of the interpretation shall be made public at least one week in advance, indicating that suggestions may be made during the period of interpretation.

- The place and duration of the interpretation shall be made public at least one week in advance, indicating that suggestions may be made during the period of interpretation. The suggestions submitted in due time shall be examined; the result shall be communicated to the respective whistleblowers.

- The suggestions submitted in due time must be examined; the result must be communicated to the respective whistleblowers. If more than 50 persons have submitted suggestions with substantially the same content, the communication of the result of the examination may be replaced by the fact that such persons are allowed to see the result; the body at which the result of the examination can be viewed during the hours of service must be made public.

- If more than 50 persons have submitted proposals with substantially the same content, the communication of the result of the examination may be replaced by the provision of access to the result to those persons; the body at which the result of the examination can be viewed during the hours of service shall be made public; if the draft external emergency plan is amended or supplemented in accordance with the interpretation, it shall be re-interpreted; the re-interpretation may stipulate that such proposals can only be made in respect of the amended or supplemented parts.

- If the draft of the external emergency plan is amended or supplemented after its interpretation, it shall be re-examined; if the re-examination of the draft may stipulate that incentives can only be made to the amended or supplemented parts. If the amendment or addition of the draft does not affect the broad lines of the planning or if modifications or additions are minor or minor, a new public interpretation may be waived.

- If the modification or addition of the draft does not affect the broad lines of the planning, or if modifications or additions are of minor or minor importance, a new public interpretation may be excluded. (6) The lower civil protection authorities shall review, test and, if necessary, revise and update the external emergency plans drawn up by them at intervals of not more than three years with the participation of the operator (§ 7 (1) and 2) and taking into account the internal emergency plan.

- (6) The lower civil protection authorities shall review, test and update the external contingency plans they have drawn up at intervals of not more than three years with the participation of the operator (section 7 (1) and (2)) and taking into account the internal contingency plan.

- The review shall take into account changes in establishments and emergency services, new technical knowledge and knowledge on how to act in the event of major accidents. (7) Operators shall immediately notify the competent lower civil protection authorities of any changes to their alert and security plans that have significant implications for the action to be taken in the event of an incident.

- (7) Where operators identify changes to their alert and security plans in the periodic review of their alert and security plans which have significant effects on the measures to be taken in the event of an incident, they shall immediately notify the competent lower civil protection authorities. § 13a Protection of critical infrastructures (1) Critical infrastructures are institutions and supply structures of particular importance to the state community, in the event of a failure or impairment of which supply bottlenecks, significant disturbances of public security or other significant consequences would occur.

- § 13a Protection of Critical Infrastructures (1) Critical infrastructures are institutions and supply structures of particular importance to the state community, in the event of a failure or impairment of lasting supply bottlenecks, significant disturbances of public security or other significant consequences would occur. (2) Operators of facilities which are critical infrastructures or belong to such infrastructures must prevent the emergence of a failure or impairment of critical infrastructures and must have appropriate measures to contain and manage a damage event.

- 2. Operators of critical infrastructures shall prevent, by appropriate measures, the occurrence of a failure or impairment of critical infrastructures and shall be required to take appropriate measures to contain and manage a damage event. In particular, they shall ensure that they are able to carry on their tasks independently in the event of failure or impairment of other critical infrastructures for an appropriate period of time.

- In particular, they shall ensure that they are able to carry on their tasks independently in the event of failure or impairment of other critical infrastructures for an appropriate period of time. They shall be obliged to cooperate with the civil protection authorities and shall report their preparedness plans to the relevant civil protection authorities each year.

- They are obliged to cooperate with the civil protection authorities and have to report their preparedness plans to the relevant civil protection authorities annually. § 14 Training and further training, civil protection exercises (1) The training and further training of the civil protection workers is the responsibility of the country, the counties, the non-circular cities as well as the institutions of the private units and institutions.

- § 14 Training and further training, civil protection exercises (1) The training and further training of the helpers in civil protection is the responsibility of the country, the counties, the county-free cities as well as the institutions of the private units and institutions. The supplementary civil protection training of the federal government in accordance with § 13 paragraph 4 and § 14 of the Civil Protection and Kata- - page 11 of 23 - strophenhilfegesetz is carried out in particular by the institutions of the private and public units and institutions.

- The supplementary civil protection training and further training of the federal government in accordance with § 13 paragraph 4 and § 14 of the Civil Protection and Kata- - page 11 of 23 - strophenhilfegesetz is carried out in particular by the sponsors of private and public units and institutions. (2) The Landesschule für Brand- und Kataschutz Mecklenburg-Vorpommern trains executives and specialists in civil protection in particular in the areas of staff work, fire protection and defence against chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear hazards.

- (2) The Landesschule für Brand- und Katastropheschutz Mecklenburg-Vorpommern trains management and specialists in civil protection in particular in the fields of staff work, fire protection and defence against chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear hazards. Furthermore, the training and training of the helpers is carried out by the private aid organizations.

- In addition, the training and training of the helpers is carried out by the private aid organisations. (3) The upper and lower civil protection authorities regularly carry out civil protection exercises on the basis of training sessions in order to test the interaction of the units and facilities involved in the protection of the catastrophe and to check their readiness to operate.

- (3) The upper and lower civil protection authorities regularly carry out civil protection exercises on the basis of exercise plans in order to test the interaction of the units and facilities involved in the Katastrophenschutz and to check their readiness to operate.The upper civil protection authority prepares a training concept for Mecklenburg-Vorpommern from the exercise plans of the lower civil protection authorities.

- The upper civil protection authority draws up an exercise concept for Mecklenburg-Vorpommern from the exercise plans of the lower civil protection authorities. The districts and district-free cities participate to an appropriate extent in state exercises.

- The districts and non-circular cities participate to an appropriate extent in national exercises. (4) The staff required for cooperation in the management units must be trained regularly.

- (4) The personnel required for cooperation in the management units must be trained regularly.Subsection 2 Measures to ward off the disaster § 15 Principle (1) In the event of a disaster, the civil protection authorities must take the measures necessary for the defence of the disaster at their discretion.

- Subsection 2 Countermeasures § 15 Principle (1) In the event of a disaster, the civil protection authorities shall take the measures necessary for the defence of the disaster at their discretion. (2) The lower civil protection authority may request or give instructions to authorities, services and public bodies in their local jurisdiction.

- 2. The lower civil protection authority may request or give instructions to authorities, departments and public bodies in their local areas of competence. The lower civil protection authorities shall be obliged to provide assistance to each other, provided that this does not significantly impair their own urgent tasks.

- The lower civil protection authorities are obliged to provide assistance to each other insofar as this does not significantly affect urgent tasks of their own. (3) If a disaster has occurred within the meaning of § 1 paragraph 2 of this law, the competent civil protection authority has to determine the occurrence of the disaster, in the cases of § 16 paragraph 2 the competent authority under these regulations.

- (3) If a disaster has occurred within the meaning of § 1 (2) of this Act, the competent civil protection authority shall determine the occurrence of the disaster, in the cases of § 16 (2) the competent authority in accordance with these provisions. The end of the disaster shall also be determined by the competent authority.

- The end of the disaster is also noted by the competent authority and the relevant civil protection authority must document the entire operation through appropriate measures.

- The competent civil protection authority shall, by means of appropriate measures, document the entire operation. (4) As a measure referred to in paragraph 1, the lower civil protection authority shall, in particular:

