# 4.

- - page 12 of 23 - (5) Where necessary, in particular in the event of a mass attack by persons affected, the Supreme Katastrophenschutzbehörde (Catastrophenschutzbehörde) shall establish, in the context of the prevention of disasters, a central authority of the country for the purposes referred to in paragraph 4.

- - page 12 of 23 - (5) If necessary, in particular in the event of a mass attack by persons affected, the Supreme Katastrophenschutzbehörde in the context of the prevention of disasters establishes a centrally operated personal information office of the country for the purposes referred to in paragraph 4. The civil protection authorities and the participating forces, units and institutions shall transmit the data referred to in paragraph 36 (1) in particular to the central personal information office.

- The civil protection authorities and the co-operating forces, units and institutions shall in particular transmit the data referred to in § 36 (1) to the centrally operated personal information office. Personal data may also be processed without the consent of the data subject.

- Personal information providers may also process personal data without the consent of the data subject. An IT procedure is to be used to ensure the automated data transmission between the zen-trall- operated personal information office and all bodies involved in the management of the situation.

- An IT procedure is to be used to ensure the automated transmission of data between the zentrall operating personal information office and all the bodies involved in managing the situation. The task of the centrally operating personal information office is transferred to the DRC by means of application data processing.

- The task of the centrally operated personal information office will be transferred to the DRC by means of data processing. The DRC will thus be given the opportunity to fulfil its tasks of surveying and family reunification.

- The DRC is thus given the opportunity to carry out its tasks of seeking and reuniting families. More information is provided by the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Europe.

- Further details are regulated by the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Europe. § 16 Steering of the defence measures (1) The lower civil protection authority is responsible for the uniform management of the defense measures, including the use of units and facilities involved in civil protection.

- § 16 Management of the defence measures (1) The lower civil protection authority is responsible for the uniform management of the defense measures, including the deployment of the units and facilities involved in civil protection. To this end, the lower civil protection authorities use their civil protection staff.

- 2. If the disaster acts beyond the competence of the lower civil protection authority or if the nature and severity or impact of the damage event so requires, the supreme civil protection authority may, in whole or in part, involve the uniform management of the defence measures, including the deployment of the units and bodies involved in civil protection, or may designate one of the local lower civil protection authorities as the competent civil protection authority.

- 2. If the disaster is beyond the competence of the lower civil protection authority or if the nature and severity or impact of the damage event so requires, the supreme civil protection authority may involve the uniform management of the defence measures, including the deployment of the units and facilities involved in civil protection in whole or in part, or may declare one of the local competent lower civil protection authorities the competent civil protection authority. The changes to the responsibility shall be notified without delay to the relevant civil protection authorities.

- 3. The Supreme Civil Protection Authority shall coordinate its actions, in particular with the ministries whose operations are affected by the disaster.

- (3) The Supreme Civil Protection Authority shall coordinate its actions, in particular with the ministries whose business areas are affected by the disaster, and the Supreme Civil Protection Authority may use a coordination unit for this purpose.

- 4. Civil protection authorities are obliged to keep each other informed of their actions.

- (4) The civil protection authorities are obliged to keep each other informed of their actions. § 17 Right of instruction (1) In the case of disasters, the units and bodies involved in civil protection are subject to the instructions of the civil protection authorities responsible in accordance with § 16.

- § 17 Right of instruction (1) In the event of a disaster, the units involved in civil protection shall be subject to the instructions of the civil protection authorities responsible in accordance with § 16. (2) With regard to their powers under paragraph 1, the lower civil protection authority shall be subject to the technical supervision of the supreme civil protection authority.

- 2. With regard to its powers under paragraph 1, the lower civil protection authority shall be subject to the technical supervision of the supreme civil protection authority. 3. The supreme civil protection authority shall have a fundamental right of instruction vis-à-vis the organisations and authorities running civil protection units.

- (3) The Supreme Civil Protection Authority has a fundamental right of instruction vis-à-vis the organisations and authorities that carry out civil protection units. § 18 Obligations to provide assistance and services (1) The civil protection authorities may, insofar as this is mandatory for the prevention of a catastrophe and the existing helpers are not sufficient in individual cases, men and women from full - page 13 of 23 - end 18. until the completed 60.

- § 18 Obligations to provide assistance and services (1) The civil protection authorities may, insofar as this is mandatory for the prevention of a disaster and the existing helpers are not sufficient in individual cases, oblige men and women from full - page 13 of 23 - to provide assistance in the fight against disasters until the age of 60.

- In the event of a failure to provide assistance in the fight against disasters, aid may be refused only if it would result in a significant risk to the person concerned or if it would violate other important obligations of the person concerned.

- The assistance may only be refused if it would result in a significant risk of its own or in violation of other important obligations of the persons to be taken into account. In the event of a risk of delay, material, works or services may also be taken directly into account; such measures must be confirmed by the Civil Protection Authority to the service providers without delay if they have been taken in the event of their absence.

- Where there is a risk of delay, material, works or services may also be taken directly into account; such measures must be confirmed by the Civil Protection Authority to the service providers without delay if they have been taken in the event of their absence. (2) Appeals and other remedies against the above measures have no apparent effect.

- (2) Appeals and other appeals against the above measures have no apparent effect. § 19 Disbarred area, evictions, tolerance obligations (1) The Civil Protection Authority may declare a restricted area affected by the disaster or directly at risk.

- § 19 Dismantling area, evictions, tolerance obligations (1) The Civil Protection Authority may declare an area affected by the disaster or directly endangered as a restricted area. (2) The Civil Protection Authority may order that residents and other persons must temporarily leave an area affected or directly endangered by the disaster.

- 2. The Civil Protection Authority may order residents and other persons to temporarily leave an area affected or directly at risk by the disaster. (3) Residents and other persons in an area affected by a disaster or directly at risk shall comply with all orders issued by the Civil Protection Authority or the operational management it uses.

- (3) Inhabitants and other persons in an area affected by a disaster or directly at risk shall comply with all orders of the Civil Protection Authority or the operational management it uses. (4) Owners, owners or other authorised users of land, buildings and buildings shall be obliged, in the event of a disaster, to allow disaster response personnel to enter and use their land, buildings and ships to the extent necessary to counter the disaster.

- 4. In the event of a disaster, the owners, owners or other authorised users of land, buildings and buildings shall be obliged to allow disaster response personnel to enter and use their land, buildings and ships to the extent necessary to prevent the disaster.

- 5. Owners or owners of vehicles, as well as other disaster-responsible equipment and equipment, shall be obliged to make them available at the request of the Civil Protection Authority or the Chief of Operations to the extent necessary to prevent the disaster.

- (5) Owners or owners of vehicles as well as other bodies and facilities suitable for disaster response are obliged to make them available at the request of the Civil Protection Authority or the Chief of Operations, to the extent necessary to prevent the disaster. (6) Paragraph 18(2) applies mutatis mutandis.

- (6) § 18 Paragraph 2 applies accordingly. § 20 Compensation (1) Anyone who has been claimed pursuant to § 18 Paragraph 1 or § 19 Paragraph 3 to 5 may demand compensation for the damage caused to him.

- § 20 Compensation (1) Anyone who has been claimed pursuant to § 18 paragraph 1 or § 19 paragraphs 3 to 5 may claim compensation for the damage caused to him. (2) However, there is no claim for compensation insofar as:

