# 2.

- the regular analysis of the risks present in its area of responsibility in the form of a circle description for the preparation and continuation of civil protection plans according to § 31 para. 1 Nr. 4 ThürBKG. (2) In the context of the task management according to § 7 para. 1 Nr. 5 ThürBKG, the Landesverwaltungsamt (Landesverwaltungsamt) pursuant to § 27 para. 2 ThürBKG as the upper civil protection authority is responsible for the civil protection of installations and dangerous events, from which risks arise for the territory of several lower civil protection authorities and which require central measures.

- (2) In the context of the task management according to § 7 para. 1 Nr. 5 ThürBKG, the Landesverwaltungs amt according to § 27 para. 2 ThürBKG as the upper civil protection authority is responsible for the civil protection of installations and dangerous events, from which risks arise for the territory of several lower civil protection authorities and require the central measures. The upper civil protection authority regularly merges the district descriptions to a risk assessment of the country and draws up on their basis civil protection plans of the country according to § 31 para. 2 ThürBKG in conjunction with para. 1 Nr. 2.

- The Upper Ka- tastrophenschutzbehörde (Ka- tastrophenschutzbehörde) regularly merges the descriptions of the county into a risk assessment of the country and draws up civil protection plans of the country in accordance with § 31 para. 2 ThürBKG in conjunction with § 1 Nr. 2. (3) In the context of the task management according to § 7 para. 1 Nr. 5 ThürBKG, the Ministry responsible for the Katastrophenschutz is responsible for the fundamental matters of civil protection and transnational cooperation according to § 27 para. 3 ThürBKG as the supreme civil protection authority.

- (3) In the context of the task management according to § 7 para. 1 Nr. 5 ThürBKG, the Ministry responsible for the Katastrophenschutz is responsible for the fundamental affairs of civil protection and transnational cooperation according to § 27 para. 3 ThürBKG as the supreme civil protection authority.

