# 2.

- in the case of joint performance of the lower civil protection authorities according to § 5 para. 2 ThürBKG, decide on the number of necessary units and facilities. (4) If several lower civil protection authorities are involved in the establishment of units, they decide by mutual agreement on the management of the respective unit (leading civil protection authority).

- 4. Where a number of lower civil protection authorities are involved in the establishment of units, they shall decide by common accord on the management of the relevant unit (leading civil protection authority). If the agreement referred to in the first sentence is not reached, the upper civil protection authority shall designate the leading civil protection authority.

- If the agreement is not reached in accordance with the first sentence, the upper civil protection authority shall designate the leading civil protection authority. All other contributors shall assist the leading civil protection authority in the fulfilment of its tasks in civil protection.

- All other contributors must assist the leading civil protection authority in the fulfilment of its tasks in civil protection. (5) The Federal Institute for Technical Assistance is acting in accordance with Section 1 para. 2 No. 3 of the THW Act of 22 January 1990 (BGBl.

- (5) The Bundesanstalt Technisches Hilfswerk is involved in the repair, recovery and supply of technical aids in accordance with Section 1 (2) No. 3 of the THW Act of 22 January 1990 (BGBl I, p. 118) as amended, in particular in the areas of repair, recovery and supply.

- 118) in the current version, in particular in the areas of repair, salvage and supply. § 2 Units of Civil Protection (1) The following basic units are established according to § 28 para. 3 ThürBKG and according to Appendices 1 to 4 altogether by all lower civil protection authorities:

