# 12.

- (3) In accordance with Appendix 17, a mobile civil protection leadership unit of the country and a wider civil protection support unit of the measurement line will be established at the National Fire Brigade and Civil Protection School as well as in accordance with Appendix 13.

- (3) In accordance with Appendix 17, a mobile civil protection management unit of the country and a wider civil protection support unit of the measurement line will be set up at the Landesfeuerwehr- und Katastropheschutzschule, as well as in accordance with Appendix 13. (4) In the establishment of the basic and special units according to paragraphs 1 and 2, equivalent vehicles according to § 44 para. 4 sentence 3 ThürBKG are according to stages 2 and 3 of the Appendix 1 to the Thuringian Fire Brigade Organisational Ordinance of 27 January 2009 (GVBl.

- (4) When establishing the basic and special units in accordance with paragraphs 1 and 2, equivalent vehicles shall be counted in accordance with § 44 para. 4 sentence 3 ThürBKG according to the stages 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Thuringian Fire Brigade Organizational Ordinance of 27 January 2009 (GVBl. p. 39) in the respective applicable version.

- (5) The supplementary civil protection equipment of the federal government pursuant to § 13 para. 1 to 3 of the Civil Protection and Ka- tastrophenhilfegesetz (ZSKG) of 25 March 1997 (BGBl.

- (5) The supplementary civil protection equipment of the federal government pursuant to § 13 para. 1 to 3 of the Civil Protection and Capital Assistance Act (ZSKG) of 25 March 1997 (BGBl. I p. 726), as amended, shall be integrated into the basic and special units referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2.

- I, p. 726) in the current version must be integrated into the basic and special units in accordance with paragraphs 1 and 2. (6) Insofar as double use is possible, the supplementary civil protection equipment of the federal government in accordance with § 13 para. 1 to 3 ZSKG as well as the vehicles and equipment items of the civil protection system procured by the country can also be used in the context of fire protection and general assistance in accordance with § 2 para. 1 No. 1 and 2 ThürBKG, the mountain and water rescue according to § 4 of the Thuringian Rescue Service (ThürRettG) of 16 July 2008 (GVBl.

- (6) Insofar as double use is possible, the supplementary civil protection equipment of the federal government according to § 13 para. 1 to 3 ZSKG as well as the vehicles and equipment items of civil protection procured by the country can also be used in the context of fire protection and general assistance according to § 2 para. 1 no. 1 and 2 ThürBKG, the mountain and water rescue according to § 4 of the Thuringian Rescue Service (ThürRettG) of 16 July 2008 (GVBl. p. 233) in the respectively valid version as well as in the case of larger emergency events according to § 17 ThürRettG.

- 233) in the current version as well as in case of major emergency events according to § 17 ThürRettG. § 3 Facilities of civil protection - page 4 of 25 - (1) According to the condition of Appendix 18 a ca-strophic protection stab is established by all lower civil protection authorities.

- § 3 Civil protection facilities - page 4 of 25 - (1) According to Appendix 18, all lower civil protection authorities will set up a civil protection stab. (2) The country operates decentralised civil protection camps in order to maintain further equipment and equipment for civil protection.

- (2) The country operates decentralised civil protection camps in order to maintain further equipment and equipment for civil protection. According to § 55 para. 1 ThürBKG, the Ministry responsible for civil protection may delegate responsibility for the con- ception and management of civil protection camps to the upper civil protection authority by administrative regulation.

- In accordance with § 55 para. 1 ThürBKG of the Upper Civil Protection Authority, the Ministry responsible for civil protection may delegate responsibility for the con- ception and management of the civil protection camps by administrative regulation. (3) The concepts of the Federal Ministry for the supply of medical material are implemented by the Ministry responsible for health in consultation with the Supreme Civil Protection Authority in a concept.

- (3) The Federal Agency's concepts for the supply of medical materials are implemented by the Ministry responsible for Health in consultation with the Supreme Civil Protection Authority in a national concept. The national concept must be updated regularly and communicated to the civil protection authorities.

- The national concept must be updated regularly and communicated to the civil protection authorities. § 4 Executives in civil protection (1) Unit leader of basic and special units according to § 2 para. 1 and 2 as well as the heads of the catastrophenschutz-Stäbe according to § 3 para. 1 are appointed by the responsible lower civil protection authority.

- § 4 Chief Civil Protection Officers (1) Head of Unit of Base and Special Units according to § 2 para. 1 and 2 as well as the heads of the Katastrophenschutz-Stäbe according to § 3 para. 1 are appointed by the responsible lower civil protection authority. (2) Head of Unit of Units to be established by several lower civil protection authorities are appointed by the leading civil protection authority in consultation with the other involved civil protection authorities.

- (2) Unit leaders of units to be established by several lower civil protection authorities are appointed by the leading civil protection authority in consultation with the other involved civil protection authorities. § 5 Training and further training (1) The supplementary civil protection training of the federal government is to be integrated into the training and further training of the helpers in civil protection.

- § 5 Training and further training (1) The supplementary civil protection training of the Federal Government must be integrated into the training and further training of the helpers in ca-strophic protection. (2) Aiders in civil protection have to train annually to a minimum of 40 hours.

- (2) Civil protection workers have to train annually to a minimum of 40 hours. In the training provided for in the first sentence, specific topics must be integrated, taking into account already existing training obligations under fire service regulations 2 and organisational training courses.

- In the training according to the first sentence, ca-strophic protection-specific topics must be integrated into the training according to the fire service regulations 2 and organization-own training, taking into account already existing training obligations. Sentence 1 does not apply to the members of the Katastrophenschutz-Stäbe according to § 3 para. 1.

- Sentence 1 does not apply to the members of the Katastrophenschutz-Stäbe according to § 3 para. 1. (3) Helpers in civil protection, who participate in trainings according to the regulations of the highest Katastrophenschutzbehörde, must be provided with written proof by the training body.

- 3. Disaster protection workers participating in training under the conditions laid down by the Supreme Civil Protection Authority shall be provided with written evidence by the training body, which shall be submitted to the sending organisation.

- Such evidence shall be submitted to the sending organisation. Organisations shall report the evidence of participation in courses to the lower civil protection authorities.

- The organisations have to report the evidence of participation in courses to the lower civil protection authorities. § 6 Exercises (1) For the testing of the civil protection plans to be drawn up according to § 31 para. 1 Nr. 4 ThürBKG and the cooperation of the units and facilities of the civil protection as well as for the testing of the operational readiness of the forces, each lower civil protection authority has regularly and mutually building

