# 2.

- (4) The Upper Civil Protection Authority shall ensure inter-country coordination of the deployment of the necessary civil protection units.

- (4) The Upper Civil Protection Authority shall ensure cross-country coordination of the deployment of the necessary civil protection units, in which the civil protection units of all counties and non-circuit cities can be deployed regardless of their territorial impact.

- The civil protection units of all counties and non-circular cities can be used regardless of their territorial impact. Care must be taken to ensure that, during the operation, civil protection is generally ensured throughout all counties and non-circular cities, but in a reduced form.

- It is important to ensure that during the operation, civil protection is generally guaranteed throughout all counties and non-circular cities, but in a reduced form. § 8 Medical Task Force (1) The Medical Task Force (MTF) is to be set up in a decentralised manner according to the Federal Medical Task Force (MTF) of 1 August 2018 as amended by the Upper Civil Protection Authority in Thuringia.

- § 8 Medical Task Force (1) The Medical Task Force (MTF) is to be set up in accordance with the Federal Medical Task Force (MTF) framework concept of 1 August 2018 as amended by the Upper Civil Protection Authority in Thuringia. (2) The Head of Unit of the Medical Task Force will be appointed by the Upper Civil Protection Authority in consultation with the participating lower civil protection authorities and the Landesverbän- of the aid organisations recognised in accordance with § 26 para. 1 ZSKG.

- (2) The Head of Unit of the Medical Task Force shall be appointed by the Upper Civil Protection Authority in consultation with the participating lower civil protection authorities and the Landesverbän- der Hilfsorganisationen recognized in accordance with § 26 para. 1 ZSKG. (3) Each Medical Task Force shall complete at least eight hours of joint training per calendar year.

- 3. Each Medical Task Force shall complete at least eight hours of joint training per calendar year, in particular the interaction of all existing components at the treatment site.

- In particular, the interaction of all existing components on the treatment site must be exercised. § 9 Warning of the population (1) The lower civil protection authorities have to ensure the warning of the population within the scope of the civil protection within their area of responsibility via the modular warning system of the federal government.

- § 9 Warning of the population (1) The lower civil protection authorities have to ensure the warning of the population within the scope of civil protection within their area of responsibility via the modular warning system of the federal government. They can also use the municipal institutions for the transmission of warnings.

- In addition, they can also use the municipal institutions for sending warnings. (2) The warning of the population can also be carried out by the top or top civil protection authorities.

- (2) The warning of the population can also be carried out by the top or top civil protection authorities. § 10 Transitional provision Existing vehicles with comparable operating value, which do not correspond to the technical and tactical standards, can be counted and used until the procurement on the basis of the continuing training programme for civil protection according to § 44 para. 4 sentence 2 ThürBKG for the vehicles required according to the provisions 1 to 17.

- § 10 Transitional determination Existing vehicles with comparable operating value, which do not correspond to the technical and tactical standards, can be counted and used until the procurement on the basis of the continuing training programme for civil protection according to § 44 para. 4 sentence 2 ThürBKG for the vehicles required according to the conditions 1 to 17. The upper civil protection authority decides on the calculation of the vehicles according to sentence 1 in consultation with the lower civil protection authorities.

- The upper civil protection authority decides on the calculation of vehicles according to the first sentence in consultation with the lower civil protection authorities. § 11 Determination of equality Status and functional designations in this regulation apply to all genders.

- § 11 Determination of equality Status and functional designations in this Regulation shall apply to all genders. § 12 Entry into force, expiry - page 7 of 25 - (1) This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following the announcement.

- § 12 Entry into force, expiry - page 7 of 25 - (1) This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following its publication. (2) At the same time as the entry into force pursuant to paragraph 1, the Thuringian Civil Protection Regulation of 12 July 2010 (GVBl.

- (2) At the same time as the entry into force referred to in paragraph 1, the Thuringian Civil Protection Regulation of 12 July 2010 (GVBl. p. 264) expires.

- 264). Annex 1 (to § 2 para. 1 No. 1) Civil protection leadership team (KatS-FüSt) Team strength: 4/0/3/7 1) Unit Vehicle Origin 2) Crew Unit leader 1 Association leader Leadership unit Crew transport car (MTW) Circle 1 Leadership assistant, 1 Leadership assistant, 1 Leadership assistant/driver Leadership assistant/driver Leadership assistant Team leader (ELW 1 with room for a leadership team) Country 2 Leadership assistants, 1 Leadership assistant/driver Remarks: Footnotes 1) Team strength in figures for: Leader/underleader/manship/total strength.

- Appendix 1 (to § 2 para. 1 Nr. 1) Civil protection leadership team (KatS-FüSt) Team strength: 4/0/3/7 1) Unit Vehicle Origin 2) Crew Unit leader 1 Association leader Leadership unit Crew transport vehicle (MTW) Circle 1 Leadership assistant, 1 Executive assistant, 1 Leadership assistant/driver Leadership assistant/driver Leadership assistant Team leader (ELW 1 with room for a leadership team) Country 2 Leadership assistants, 1 Leadership assistant/driver Remarks: Footnotes 1) Team strength in figures for: Leader/sub-leader/manship/total strength. 2) Circle - Vehicle is provided by the county or the county-free city.

- 2) Circle - vehicle is provided by the county or county-free city. Land - vehicle is provided by the country.

- Land - vehicle is provided by the country. Annex 2 (to § 2 para. 1 no. 2) Civil protection rescue train (KatS-EZ rescue) Team strength: 1/4/22/27 1) - page 8 of 25 - unit Vehicle origin 2) Crew Unit leader 1 Train leader Command unit Control unit 1 (ELW 1) Circle 1 Leadership assistant, 1 Leadership assistant, 1 Leadership assistant/driver

