# 8. Brandverhütungsschau in Wäldern

- According to § 22a SächsBRKG, the lower BRK authorities carry out fire prevention activities in forests (BVS) in accordance with § 22 SächsBRKG. BVS are to be tolerated by the owners and owners of forest areas (§ 22 para. 4 SächsBRKG).

- BVS are to be tolerated by the owners and owners of forest areas (§ 22 para. 4 SächsBRKG).The participation of the lower forestry authority as the competent authority according to § 22 para. 5 SächsBRKG in conjunction with § 16 SächsFwVO is considered necessary.

- The participation of the lower forestry authority as the competent authority according to § 22 para. 5 SächsBRKG in conjunction with § 16 SächsFwVO is considered necessary. BVS forest is to be carried out mainly in regions with large contiguous forest areas (> 1000 ha) of forest fire hazard classes A.

- The BVS forest is to be carried out mainly in regions with large contiguous forest areas (> 1000 ha) of forest fire hazard classes A. 6 In forest areas of forest fire hazard class B and C, the BVS will be used for particularly vulnerable areas, e.g.: • with endangered objects that temporarily or permanently serve for the stay of people or other particularly protected objects of the critical infrastructure, which are located in the forest or up to 30 m distance to forests, • with particularly endangered forest structure, • with special topography, which makes fire fighting difficult or • with known or suspected high munitions load or • with particularly high visitor intensity as well as • in the area of mining succession landscapes after risk assessment by the counties and circular cities prioritized The recommendations made by the Saxon State Ministry of the Interior for the implementation of the fire prevention survey of 29 April 2016 (SächsAB.

- 6 In forest areas of forest fire hazard class B and C, the BVS is used for particularly vulnerable areas, such as: • with endangered objects which temporarily or permanently serve to keep people alive or other particularly protective objects of the critical infrastructure, which are located in the forest or up to 30 m distance from forests, • with particularly endangered forest structure, • with special topography, which makes fire fighting more difficult or • with known or suspected high levels of ammunition or • with particularly high visitor intensity and • in the area of mining succession landscapes prioritized after risk assessment by the counties and non-circular cities The recommendations made by the Saxon State Ministry of the Interior for the implementation of the fire prevention show of 29 April 2016 (Saxon ABI. p. 607) extend to fire prevention shows in forests and should be applied at least sensibly until their adaptation to the current legal situation is applied.

- 607) also cover fire prevention shows in forests and should be applied at least mutatis mutandis until they are adapted to the current legal situation. Based on the recommended test period for fire-fighting water supply in forest areas, the forest areas of the BVS are to be assessed over a period of five years, on the basis of the recommendations of the open-country working group "National Forest Fire Protection" in particular with regard to the following points: Checking existing fire-fighting water sampling points and, if necessary, determining the additional requirements.

- As a result of the recommended test period for the supply of extinguishing water in forest areas, the forest areas at BVS are to be assessed over a period of five years, on the basis of the recommendations of the open-country working group "National Forest Fire Protection" in particular with regard to the following points: Checking existing extinguishing water sampling points and, if necessary, determining the additional requirements. Condition and usability of the deployment routes and determination of the possible additional requirements.

- Condition and usability of the deployment routes and determination of the possible additional requirements. Examination of the forest fire deployment maps for topicality Examination of the existing forest fire alarm and deployment planning for topicality III.

- Examination of forest fire intervention maps for topicality Examination of existing forest fire alarm and intervention plans for topicality III. Forest fire protection plans, forest fire intervention maps

