# Weiterentwicklung eines

- Forest fire concepts for Bavaria Consideration of rapid adaptations of the defensive forest fire protection in the course of the changing forest fire situation in Bavaria 2 Development: • Climate change and thereby increase the average temperatures • Dryness in some forests • Jumping rise in biotic forest damage Result: Partially large-scale damage to the tree population with massive increase in fire risk • Excess of large-scale forest fires with the need of over-local assistance (previously especially in other federal states) Result: Need for over-urban aid increases. As a result, the need for tight, uniform organisation and equipment is also increasing Condition: 3 • Extensive network of fire brigades with short intervention times • In Bavaria alone, more than 315,000 firefighters are serving in around 7,600 fire brigades • For forest fire fighting, the standard extinguishing vehicles are usually used for municipal fire fighting • Well-developed road and path network in the Bavarian forests • Efficient system of fire fighting from the air by means of 17 air help groups and others with a total of 21 fire-water outer load containers • Aid quotas are increasingly needed for forest fire prevention.

- This also increases the demand for streamlined, uniform organisation and equipment.Skill status: 3 • Extensive network of fire brigades with short intervention times • In Bavaria alone, more than 315,000 firefighters are serving in around 7,600 fire brigades • Standard firefighting vehicles are usually used for municipal firefighting • Well-developed road and road network in the Bavarian forests • Efficient system of firefighting from the air by 17 flight help groups, among others, with a total of 21 fire-water outer load containers • Support service quotas are only partially suitable for forest fire fighting and are not needed in the existing size. • There are increasing problems of providing emergency support for more than three days. • There are already initial inquiries within the districts whether municipal vehicles must be placed regularly for the aid service quotas.

- • There are already initial requests within the counties whether the municipal vehicles for the aid quotas have to be placed regularly. 4 Possible solutions • Expansion of the capabilities of the flight assistance groups for longer operations (several days) with own supply (aid service quota flight helpers) • Expansion or bundling of the capabilities for the ground fire control in particular in the areas: - Water transport and, if necessary, water transport - Fire fighting on the ground - Logistics for multi-day inter-urban operations - Construction of special forces - Construction of a special unit "Firefighting with vehicles" according to EU specifications • Future also development of new leadership funds (e.g. drone satellite monitoring) Assistance service quota Air assistance workers: 5 Already largely planned and set up Assistance service quota Air assistance workers: 6 Measures in implementation: • Supplementing equipment, etc.

- 4 Solution option • Expansion of the capabilities of the flight assistance groups for longer operations (several days) with own supply (aid service quota flight assistance) • Expansion or bundling of the capabilities for ground fire control in particular in the areas: - Water transport and, if necessary, water extraction - Fire fighting on the ground - Logistics for multi-day extra-local operations - Construction of special forces - Construction of a special unit "Firefighting with vehicles" according to EU specifications • In the future also construction of new management equipment (e.g. drones satellite monitoring) Assistance service quota Air assistance workers: 5 Already largely planned and set up assistance quota Air assistance workers: 6 measures in the implementation: • Supplementing the equipment, including trailers for aviation gasoline for outdoor refuelling • Planning of logistical support • Procurement of external load containers with 2000 l capacity; suitable for the helicopter models NH 90 of the Bundeswehr or Super Puma of the Federal Police.

- Trailer for aviation fuel for external refuelling • Planning of logistics support • Procurement of external load containers with 2000 l capacity; suitable for the helicopter models NH 90 of the Bundeswehr or Super Puma of the Bundespolizei. A sample container is already delivered.

- A sample container is already delivered. Money for further procurement is available in the HH.

- Money available for further procurement in the HH. This increases the availability of required helicopters.

- This increases the availability of required helicopters. Bundling of extra-local assistance to firefighting on the ground: 7 • Establishment of special training at the state fire brigade schools thematic lead; training of specialist consultants and executives as well as multipliers • Compilation of extra-local units for firefighting on the ground (if necessary in compliance with EU requirements for appropriate modules) from the pool of more than 300,000 active forces and the existing civil protection vehicles of the federal or state of Bavaria respectively.

- Bundling of the extra-local assistance to firefighting on the ground: 7 • Establishment of special training at the state fire brigade schools thematic lead; training of technical advisors and executives as well as multipliers • compilation of extra-local units for firefighting on the ground (if necessary in compliance with EU requirements for appropriate modules) from the pool of over 300,000 active forces and the existing civil protection vehicles of the federal or free state of Bavaria. • Construction of a first EU module for firefighting on the ground with special vehicles.

- • Construction of a first EU module for fire-fighting on the ground with special vehicles. 8 Fire-fighting on the ground Available potential: • In almost every district/circuit-free city there are vehicles of the federal state and the Free State of Bavaria for disaster protection.

- 8 Firefighting on the ground Available potential: • In almost every county/circuit-free city, vehicles from the federal state and the Free State of Bavaria are available for civil protection. • These vehicles are assigned to municipal fire brigades, but are primarily procured for civil protection purposes by the federal state or Free State of Bavaria.

- • Although these vehicles are assigned to municipal fire brigades, they are primarily procured for civil protection purposes by the Federal Government or the Free State of Bavaria. • In the districts there is sufficient staff to fill a fire train in the short term (approx. 20 to 22 emergency forces or up to 50 emergency forces in shift operations).

- • In the districts there is sufficient staff to fill a fire train at short notice (approx. 20 to 22 emergency personnel or up to 50 emergency personnel in shift operations), which can usually be set up over several days.

- This staffing capacity can usually also be set for several days. • If there is a need for three-time occupation (less than 100 personnel per county), training and qualification maintenance is feasible.

- • If there is a need for three-time occupation (less than 100 emergency personnel per district), training and qualification can be achieved. 9 Firefighting on the ground Possibility 1 Division of units at the level of the districts: One train (about 22 emergency personnel) with an LF-KatS (Bund) and a V-Truck (Freistaat Bayern) and a SW KatS (Bund).

- 9 Firefighting on the ground Possibility 1 Division of the units at the level of the districts: One train (about 22 emergency forces) with an LF-KatS (bund) and a V-LKW (free state of Bavaria) and a SW KatS (bund). KdoW or MZF currently still municipal (districts) Each district provides a train In the medium term, the trains are managed by the Free state of Bavaria commissioned personnel from the pool of the management of the district.

- KdoW or MZF currently still municipal (circuits) Each district provides in the medium term a train management of the trains is carried out by the Free State of Bavaria commissioned personnel from the pool of the district's executives. Team is put out of a pool of suitable operational personnel of the district Logistics components are set up per association (8 units) 10 Fire fighting on the ground Necessary needs/capabilities for fire fighting on the ground: • Water transport capabilities with vehicles • Possibility of intermediate storage of extinguishing water near the fire site • Supply of sufficient special tools for the deployed forces Proposal to cover the needs or create the skills: • Procurement of forest fire equipment for the GW-L of the Free State of Bavaria (estimated costs 30.000 € to 40,000 € per vehicle) - Hand tools - Backpack syringes - hoses and fittings - Folding tank - Water tanks - Compressed foam system 11 Examples of forest fire equipment D-shafts and fittings Mobile CAFS systems Forest fire backpacks Tank tank 12 Forest fire equipment: Hand tools Wied heads Spades and sand shovels Fire flaps Examples of forest fires 13 Forest fires open in the IB canisters.

- Team is set up from a pool of suitable operational personnel of the circle Logistics components are set up per association (8 units) 10 Firefighting on the ground Necessary requirements/capabilities for fire fighting on the ground: • Skills for water transport with vehicles • Opportunities for intermediate storage of extinguishing water near the fire site • Feeding of sufficient special tools for the deployed forces Proposal to cover the needs or create the skills: • Procurement of forest fire equipment for the GW-L of the Free State of Bavaria (estimated cost 30.000 € to 40,000 € per vehicle) - Hand tools - Backpack syringes - Tubs and valves - Folding containers - Water tanks - Air foam system 11 Examples of forest fire equipment D-slurry and valves Mobile CAFS plants Forest fire backpacks Tank tank 12 Forest fire equipment: Hand tools Wied head hens Spades and sand shovels Fire flaps Examples of forest fire equipment 13 Forest fire equipment: Folding container 5000 l open with or without poles Examples of forest fire equipment 14 4 IBC tanks in the total of 4000 l Roll Container pump possibly.

- 4000l Rollcontainer pump possibly with TS 8 Rollcontauner grid with forest fire load Rollcontainer lighting without life jackets 4 IBC tanks insg.

- with TS 8 Rollcontauner grid with forest fire load Rollcontainer Lighting without life jackets 4 IBC tanks insg. 4000l Rollcontainer pump possible.

- 4000l Rollcontainer pump possibly with TS 8 Rollcontauner grid with forest fire load Rollcontainer lighting without life jackets V truck with forest fire equipment Rollcontainer pump Examples of loading V truck 15 Fire fighting on the ground Advantage of procurement of equipment for the GW-L compared to procurement of vehicles: • Immense cost savings.

- with TS 8 Rollcontauner grid with forest fire load Roll container Lighting without life jackets V-ruck with forest fire equipment Roll container pump Examples of loading V-ruck 15 Fire fighting on the ground Advantage of procurement of equipment for the GW-L in comparison with procurement of vehicles: • Immense cost savings. Equipment for one vehicle per Lankreis (100 units) costs approx. €4,000,000.

- Equipment for one vehicle per Lankreis (100 pieces) costs approx. 4,000,000 €. For this you get "only 10 tank-eating vehicles" • double use of the vehicles (flood oilweir, Strum, and forest fire).

- For this one gets "only 10 tankers" • double use of the vehicles (flood oilweir, strum, and forest fire). Duplicity of the events improbably.

- Duplicity of events improbable. • Uniform equipment of all Bavarian units • Planning in security concepts more easily possible, since operational value in all districts is identical.

- • Uniform equipment of all Bavarian units • Planning in security concepts is easier, since the value of use in all districts is identical. • Uniform training is facilitated.

- • Uniform training is facilitated. • In the event of vehicle failure, equipment can be loaded on replacement vehicles.

- • In case of vehicle failure, equipment can be loaded on replacement vehicles. 16 Firefighting on the ground Supplement by tank extinguishing vehicles: Planning of existing tank extinguishing vehicles and the tank extinguishing vehicles promoted under the new production guidelines Forest fire in trains for "forest fire fighting on the ground with vehicles" analogous to the concept outlined above.

- 16 Firefighting on the ground Supplement by tank extinguishing vehicles: Planning of existing tank extinguishing vehicles and the tank extinguishing vehicles for forest fire in trains for "forest fire fighting on the ground with vehicles" analogous to the concept outlined above. Lecture/Instruction - Author - Date - Place 17 Supporting units: Logistics components (7+1 units) are still to be defined and planned.

- Lecture/Instruction - Author - Date - Place 17 Supporting units: Logistics components (7+1 units) are still to be defined and planned. As far as possible vehicles and means of use from state stocking (Dekon-P (Bund), V-LKW Freistaat.....).

- As far as possible vehicles and means of use from state stockpiling (Dekon-P (Bund), V-LKW Freistaat...). Here it is planned to adhere closely to the results of the nationwide working group on logistic support for forest fire units of the AK National Forest Fire Protection.

- Here it is planned to adhere closely to the results of the nationwide working group for logistical support of forest fire units of the AK National Forest Fire Protection. Advantage: modular structure with possibility of nationwide exchange.

- Advantage: modular structure with possibility of nationwide exchange. Units for water conveying with LF KatS (Bund), SW KatS (Bund) and HFS System (Freistaat Bayern) are also to be planned and maintained according to the principle described above.

- Units for water extraction with LF KatS (Bund), SW KatS (Bund) and HFS System (Freistaat Bayern) are also to be planned and maintained according to the principle outlined above. 18 Firefighting on the ground Supplementary units: Trains for water extraction with high performance (12 times available in Bavaria): An extended group (12 forces) with an LF KatS (Bund) and a HFS system (Freistaat Bayern) Two of these groups (two counties) provide a train 19 Firefighting on the ground Structure of the units at government and state level: Management of the units at government level is carried out by personnel commissioned by the Free State of Bavaria from the pool of fire brigade managers or by personnel from fire brigade schools, governments and the StMI, advantage: Quickly usable, uniform and flexible units below the threshold of aid supply quotas.

- 18 Firefighting on the ground Complementary units: Trains for high-performance water transport (12 times available in Bavaria): An extended group (12 forces) with an LF-KatS (Bund) and an HFS system (Freistaat Bayern) Two of these groups (two counties) provide a train 19 Firefighting on the ground Structure of the units at the level of the government and the Free State: Management of the units at the government district level is carried out by personnel commissioned by the Free State of Bavaria from the pool of firefighters or by personnel from fire brigade schools, the governments and the StMI, Advantage: Quickly applicable, uniform and flexible units below the threshold of aid quotas. No overburden of personnel resources in the counties.

- No overburden of personnel resources in the counties. The units for firefighting on the ground as well as the units for firefighting with tank extinguishers comply with the respective EU requirements for modules according to EU Community procedures and the planning for the capacity management of the BBK.

- The units for firefighting on the ground as well as the units for firefighting with tank-extinguishing vehicles comply with the respective requirements of the EU for modules according to EU Community procedures and the planning for the capacity management of the BBK. 20 firefighting on the ground Supplementary units: Logistics and operational management: Existing equipment mainly of the fire brigade schools and the Kat-S (V-LKW, ELW, MTW....

- 20 Firefighting on the ground Complementary units: Logistics and operational management: Existing equipment mainly of fire brigade schools and the Kat-S (V-LKW, ELW, MTW.... Detailed planning still required Firefighting on the ground 21 Bundling of units according to groups, trains, associations and department In a first step, at least 20 trains (approx.

- Detailed planning still necessary Firefighting on the ground 21 Bundling of units according to groups, trains, associations and department In a first step, at least 20 trains (approx. 650 emergency personnel) can be implemented.Perhaps even in almost every KVB These could be divided into 7 – 8 associations (approx. 1 x per government district).

- Perhaps even in almost every KVB These could be divided into 7 – 8 associations (approx. 1 x per government district). A nationwide department can be set above that.

- A nationwide department can be set on this. 22 Firefighting on the ground Further procedure: Information of the LFV Bayern in the upcoming meeting of the Verand committee already taken place and signaled approval.

- 22 Firefighting on the ground Further procedure: Information of the LFV Bayern in the upcoming meeting of the Verand committee already took place and signaled approval. Establishment of a working group of representatives of the LFV, the governments of the district administration authorities of the state fire brigade schools and the StMI for fine planning of the units.

- Establishment of a working group consisting of representatives of the LFV, the governments of the county administration authorities of the state fire brigade schools and the StMI for the detailed planning of the units. Procurement of three to four model equipments of the GW-L for the examination of practicality and presentation in the area.

- Procurement of three to four model equipments of the GW-L for the examination of practical suitability and presentation in the area. If possible verification and presentation of the concept in the context of the joint forest fire exercise with Lower Saxony.

- If possible review and presentation of the concept within the framework of the joint forest fire exercise with Lower Saxony. After completion of the planning IMS to the districts for the implementation of the concept.

- After completion of the planning IMS to the counties for the implementation of the concept. 23 special unit firefighting with vehicles (EU conform): funds for vehicle equipment already available in the HH See the following foils requirements EU forest fire module 24 • off-road • Mind 2000 l water; proposal D2: Mind 3000 l water • quick attack with formally stable hose can be coupled • quick attack C smoke on reel • thermal self-protection of important pipes • self-protection system incl. assailor (overall handle necessary!?)

- 23 Special unit Firefighting with vehicles (EU conform): funds for vehicle equipment already available in HH See the following foils Requirements EU Forest Fire Module 24 • Off-road • Mind 2000 l Water; proposal D2: Mind 3000 l Water • Quick attack with formable hose couplerable • Rapid attack C smoke on reel • Thermal self-protection of important pipes • Self-protection system incl. assample (overhead bracket necessary!?) • Possibly.

- • possibly protection of the axles etc. for off-road driving • breathing in the crew room • roof hatch?!

- Protection of axles, etc. for off-road driving • Breathing air supply in the crew room • Dachluke?! • Thrower (front launcher) • Selbsbergewinde?!

- • Werfer (front launcher) • Selbsbergewinde?! 25 requirements EU Forest Fire Module Bavariaspecific • CAFS system (test carriers for future vehicles • Fire extinguishing centrifugal pump FPN 10-1000 • Squad or scale crew (no adjustment of the FW DV 3) • In addition to the above equipment Load according to DIN for TLF 2000 min load set Waldbrand (incl. chain saw and a) • Suitable for municipal use (water transport, etc.) • Weight approx. 12 t • Alternating system for further use in KatS (according to own pump drive) Possible vehicle constellations 26 CCF-WALDBRAND-TLF 27 CCF-WALDBRAND-TLF 28 29 Examples of change systems: 30 examples of change systems 31 Examples of change systems 32 Examples of change systems 33 Examples of change systems Discussion 34

